{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-RegularItalic;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 .AppleSystemUIFontMonospaced-Regular;\f5\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f7\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f8\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;\red151\green0\blue126;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red20\green0\blue196;\red111\green90\blue30;\red181\green0\blue19;\red135\green5\blue129;\red13\green100\blue1;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;\cssrgb\c66667\c5098\c56863;\csgray\c0;
\cssrgb\c10980\c0\c81176;\cssrgb\c51373\c42353\c15686;\cssrgb\c76863\c10196\c8627;\cssrgb\c60784\c13725\c57647;\cssrgb\c0\c45490\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs44 \cf2 Why Binary Streams Prevail (and a Hypothetical Ternary \'93TritRPC\'94)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 In modern computing and RPC frameworks, binary (base-2) data streams are universal.
\f1\b0  This is no accident: it reflects deep practical realities of hardware and engineering. Below we break down why binary won out, examine analogous multi-level tricks in current tech, sketch a hypothetical base-3 \'93TritRPC\'94 for illustration, and highlight the theoretical allure of ternary logic.\
\

\f0\b\fs34 The Overwhelming Practical Hurdle: Why Binary Won
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Ultimately, 
\f3\i hardware
\f1\i0  dictates why everything is binary. Modern digital electronics are built on 
\f2\b transistors
\f1\b0  using CMOS logic, which behave like near-perfect on/off switches. They naturally support two stable states (on = 1, off = 0), and it\'92s 
\f2\b much easier to make components with two stable states than three
\f1\b0  :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Simplicity and Reliability:
\f1\b0  A CMOS transistor in logic circuits is either 
\f2\b ON
\f1\b0  (conducting, representing \'911\'92) or 
\f2\b OFF
\f1\b0  (non-conducting, \'910\'92). These two states are 
\f2\b stable, low-power, and noise-resistant
\f1\b0 . Using binary \'93bits\'94 kept early computer hardware simple and reliable . By contrast, a stable third state (e.g. a precise half-on voltage) is an engineering nightmare. Any analog intermediate level would be 
\f3\i highly sensitive
\f1\i0  to noise, temperature, and voltage drift, undermining reliability.\
	\'95	
\f2\b The \'93Forbidden Zone\'94:
\f1\b0  In CMOS logic, the transition region between fully on and off is unstable and power-hungry. A transistor that is half-on will draw significant current (both the pull-up and pull-down networks partly conduct), wasting energy as heat. Designing circuits to idle in a mid-level state would be 
\f2\b inefficient and difficult to control
\f1\b0 . Essentially, there\'92s no convenient third \'93rail\'94 for logic that doesn\'92t incur huge costs in power and circuit complexity.\
\
These hardware factors created an overwhelming inertia in favor of binary. The entire ecosystem \'96 CPU gates, memory cells, and even communication protocols \'96 was built on robust two-state logic. Overcoming this with ternary would require a 
\f3\i revolutionary
\f1\i0  new device offering an order-of-magnitude (10\'d7) benefit to justify breaking from the binary standard. So far, ternary devices haven\'92t shown such a payoff, and binary remains the Goldilocks solution.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Closest Analogues in Modern Tech: Multi-Level Signaling
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Interestingly, some 
\f2\b physical signaling techniques
\f1\b0  use more than two voltage levels per symbol \'96 but crucially, they still interface with binary computers. For example, high-speed Ethernet links and Wi-Fi use 
\f2\b multi-level modulation
\f1\b0  to boost data rates. A scheme like 
\f2\b PAM-4
\f1\b0  (Pulse Amplitude Modulation with 4 levels) encodes 
\f3\i 2 bits per symbol
\f1\i0  by using four distinct voltage levels :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b How it works:
\f1\b0  Each voltage level represents a 2-bit pattern: for instance, in PAM-4 we might map Level_0 = 
\f4 00
\f1 , Level_1 = 
\f4 01
\f1 , Level_2 = 
\f4 10
\f1 , Level_3 = 
\f4 11
\f1 . This doubles the data throughput 
\f3\i per clock
\f1\i0  because one symbol carries 2 bits (instead of 1 in binary NRZ encoding). Likewise, modern Wi-Fi uses QAM constellations (e.g. 16-QAM, 64-QAM) where combinations of amplitude and phase encode multiple bits per carrier wave.\
	\'95	
\f2\b But still binary at heart:
\f1\b0  These multi-level signals are purely a 
\f2\b physical layer optimization
\f1\b0 . The receiver (e.g. your network card) immediately decodes each multi-level symbol back into a standard binary bit stream before passing it up to any software or RPC layer. The computer\'92s logic still only understands 1s and 0s. In other words, the wire might momentarily carry more than two voltage states, but 
\f3\i the information ultimately becomes bits
\f1\i0 . The same is true in storage: NAND flash memory with 
\f2\b TLC
\f1\b0  (Triple-Level Cell) stores 3 bits in one cell by distinguishing 8 charge levels , and QLC (Quad-Level Cell) uses 16 levels for 4 bits. These analog tricks increase density, but internally error-correcting controllers ensure the output is still a stream of binary data.\
\
In summary, no mainstream 
\f2\b computing system
\f1\b0  uses ternary logic throughout. Where we do see multi-level encodings, they serve as efficiency hacks at the analog transmission/storage layer, not as ternary computation. The hardware always converts the data back to binary because the logic circuits themselves remain binary.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Sketch of a Hypothetical \'93TritRPC\'94 Framework
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
For the sake of argument, 
\f2\b imagine
\f1\b0  we had a true ternary computer that processes trits (-1, 0, +1). What might a serialization/RPC format look like in base-3? It turns out it could closely mirror something like Protocol Buffers, just with a different number system. Let\'92s use 
\f2\b balanced ternary
\f1\b0  digits \'96 say 
\f4 \cf2 N
\f1 \cf2  for -1, 
\f4 \cf2 Z
\f1 \cf2  for 0, and 
\f4 \cf2 P
\f1 \cf2  for +1 \'96 because balanced ternary elegantly handles negatives without a separate sign bit . We\'92ll outline two key components of a made-up 
\f3\i \'93TritRPC\'94
\f1\i0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Basic Encoding \'96 Varint\uc0\u7488  (Variable-length Trits):
\f1\b0  In binary ProtoBuf, integers are encoded as 
\f3\i \cf2 varints
\f1\i0 \cf2  where each byte uses 7 bits for value and 1 bit as a \'93continue\'94 flag. In our ternary version, we can use a similar scheme with trits. For example, use the most significant trit of each tryte (a group of ternary digits) as a continuation flag: say 
\f4 \cf2 P
\f1 \cf2  or 
\f4 \cf2 N
\f1 \cf2  in that position means \'93more trits follow\'94, and 
\f4 \cf2 Z
\f1 \cf2  means \'93stop here\'94.\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f3\i Encoding the number 5:
\f1\i0  In balanced ternary, 5 is represented as 
\f4 \cf2 PNN
\f1 \cf2  (because $5 = 1 \\cdot 3^2 + (-1) \\cdot 3^1 + (-1) \\cdot 3^0 = 9 - 3 - 1$). This fits in one tryte, so we mark it as the final chunk with a leading 
\f4 \cf2 Z
\f1 \cf2 . 
\f2\b Wire format:
\f1\b0  
\f4 \cf2 Z P N N
\f1 \cf2  (a four-trit sequence).\
	\'95	
\f3\i Encoding the number 13:
\f1\i0  In balanced ternary, 13 is 
\f4 \cf2 PPP
\f1 \cf2  ($13 = 1\\cdot9 + 1\\cdot3 + 1\\cdot1$). We again only need one group, so the wire representation is 
\f4 \cf2 Z P P P
\f1 \cf2 .\
(In practice, just like binary varints, larger numbers would span multiple groups of trits with 
\f4 \cf2 P/N
\f1 \cf2  flags indicating continuation.)\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	2.	
\f2\b Message Structure \'96 Tagged Fields:
\f1\b0  The message would be a series of fields with headers, analogous to ProtoBuf\'92s field tags. Each field tag would combine the field number and type (but now encoded in base-3). For instance, consider a message:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf3 message \cf4 User \{\
    string name = \cf5 1\cf4 ;\
    int32  points = \cf5 2\cf4 ;\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Suppose we want to encode 
\f4 \cf2 User\{name="Al", points=5\}
\f1 \cf2  in TritRPC:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Field 1 (name):
\f1\b0  Field number 1, type=string. In a ProtoBuf-like scheme, we might assign a type code (say 
\f4 \cf2 PZ
\f1 \cf2  for \'93string\'94). The field tag in base-3 could be the field number (1, which is 
\f4 \cf2 1
\f1 \cf2  in ternary) combined with type code, yielding something like 
\f4 \cf2 PZZ
\f1 \cf2  (this is a hypothetical encoding for illustration). Next comes the length of the string. \'93Al\'94 is 2 characters, so we encode 2 as 
\f4 \cf2 Z P N
\f1 \cf2  (ternary 2 = $2_\{10\} = 2_\{3\}$, represented here as 
\f4 \cf2 PN
\f1 \cf2  with a 
\f4 \cf2 Z
\f1 \cf2  terminator). Then the UTF-8 bytes of \'93Al\'94 would be represented in ternary form (each byte would be converted to a couple of trytes). 
\f2\b On the wire
\f1\b0 , the field would look like: 
\f4 \cf2 [Tag: PZZ] [Length: Z P N] [Payload: (ternary data for "A" and "l")]
\f1 \cf2 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Field 2 (points):
\f1\b0  Field number 2, type=varint. In our scheme, maybe the type code for a varint is 
\f4 \cf2 ZZ
\f1 \cf2 . The field tag for field 2 would then be something like 
\f4 \cf2 PNZZ
\f1 \cf2 . The value 5 is encoded as the varint\uc0\u7488  
\f4 \cf2 Z P N N
\f1 \cf2  (from above). 
\f2\b On the wire:
\f1\b0  
\f4 \cf2 [Tag: PNZZ] [Value: Z P N N]
\f1 \cf2 .\
The overall message stream is just these field segments concatenated. Notably, the 
\f3\i structure
\f1\i0  (field tags, lengths, values) is conceptually the same as binary ProtoBuf \'96 we\'92ve just swapped out bits for trits. This exercise shows that if ternary computers existed, our RPC/serialization frameworks would look remarkably similar to today\'92s, only the numeric base underneath changes.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 The Theoretical Kicker: Why Base 3 at All?
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
If binary is so dominant, why even ponder ternary? Information theory provides an intriguing answer: 
\f2\b base-e (~2.718) is the mathematically optimal radix
\f1\b0  for encoding numbers in terms of efficiency, and 3 is the nearest integer to 
\f3\i e
\f1\i0 . In fact, a ternary digit (trit) carries about 
\f2\b log\uc0\u8322 3 \u8776  1.585 bits
\f1\b0  of information . In theory, that means a ternary system could be slightly more information-dense than a binary one. A 64-trit number, for example, can represent a larger range than a 64-bit number (it\'92s equivalent to ~101.4 bits) .\
\
Historically, this led to some experimentation with ternary computers. Notably, the Soviet 
\f2\b Setun
\f1\b0  computer (1958) used balanced ternary logic. It was reported to have some advantages like lower power usage and cheaper circuits. However, those benefits were not big enough to overcome the sheer momentum of binary technology (and Setun was eventually left behind by binary machines). The complexity of building reliable ternary hardware outweighed the marginal gains in efficiency .\
\

\f2\b In conclusion,
\f1\b0  binary won because it hit the sweet spot between simplicity and functionality. Our entire digital world \'96 from logic gates to RPC protocols \'96 is built on that robust foundation of 1s and 0s. While ternary computing is elegant in theory and may see niche use (or a revival if new tech makes it viable), any \'93trinary RPC\'94 would require a fundamentally different hardware paradigm. Until then, binary streams remain the practical choice for virtually all engineering purposes.\
\
Got it\'97let\'92s ground the whole design in 
\f2\b Avro
\f1\b0  (not Protobuf) and make Avro the schema \'93source of truth,\'94 with JSON-LD/SALAD for semantics. I\'92ll give you two compatible implementation paths, then a full worked example, resolution/evolution rules, and Kafka/Schema-Registry fit. I\'92ll also include a short self-critique + refinements at the end.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 TritRPC for Avro: A Spec Sketch
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 0) Goals (Avro-first)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Avro is authoritative
\f1\b0 : structure, defaults, evolution, and resolution follow Avro specs.\
	\'95	
\f2\b JSON-LD/SALAD
\f1\b0  binds semantics; we carry a context hash alongside the Avro schema hash.\
	\'95	
\f2\b One canonical trit stream
\f1\b0  that round-trips across:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b B2
\f1\b0  (binary transport): trit stream packed into bytes\
	\'95	
\f2\b B3
\f1\b0  (native ternary transport): raw trits\
	\'95	
\f2\b Q3
\f1\b0  (qutrit rail): trits mapped to |0\uc0\u10217 ,|1\u10217 ,|2\u10217 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Deterministic canonicalization
\f1\b0  for hashing/signing, independent of transport.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Kafka-compatible
\f1\b0 : value is bytes (B2), keyed by Avro Schema ID (+ JSON-LD Context ID).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) Two Avro-Compatible Encodings (choose one or support both)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Path A \'97 Avro Binary-in-TritRPC (ABT)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Keep Avro\'92s 
\f2\b existing binary encoding
\f1\b0  for the payload, unchanged. TritRPC provides the envelope, IDs, AEAD, and byte/trit bridging.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Pros
\f1\b0 : 100% Avro-compatible; use stock Avro libraries; minimal risk.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Cons
\f1\b0 : You don\'92t get ternary-native arithmetic internally (it\'92s still Avro\'92s zigzag varints, byte order, etc.).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 How it works
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Envelope header has MAGIC/VER/MODE/FLAGS + IDs (below).\
	\'95	
\f2\b PAYLOAD
\f1\b0  is the 
\f2\b Avro Binary Encoding (ABE)
\f1\b0  of the datum, verbatim bytes.\
	\'95	For 
\f2\b B2
\f1\b0  mode, we can either:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	store the Avro bytes as-is, or\
	\'95	(optionally) wrap them inside the canonical TritPack243 block so all modes share identical canonicalization rules.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	For 
\f2\b B3/Q3
\f1\b0  modes, we 
\f2\b must
\f1\b0  pack: ABE bytes \uc0\u8594  trits using 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  (so the raw channel carries trits/qutrits).\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In Path A, Avro\'92s binary is king; TritRPC is a thin, secure, transport-agnostic envelope.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Path B \'97 Avro-T3 (native ternary encoding with Avro semantics)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Define a 
\f2\b ternary-native encoding
\f1\b0  that respects Avro\'92s 
\f3\i semantics
\f1\i0  and 
\f3\i resolution rules
\f1\i0  but swaps in ternary-friendly primitives (balanced ternary integers, a base-9 varint, etc.). Useful if you want a truly trit-native payload.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Pros
\f1\b0 : Native ternary integers, clean mapping to qutrit rails, less impedance.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Cons
\f1\b0 : You must implement a new codec (encoder/decoder), though schema/resolve logic still comes from Avro.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 How it works
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Keep Avro types and resolution rules intact (records, arrays, maps, unions, etc.).\
	\'95	Replace primitive encodings with ternary equivalents:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 int
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 long
\f1 \cf2 : 
\f2\b balanced-ternary
\f1\b0  varints (
\f4 \cf2 varint-bt
\f1 \cf2 )\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 bytes
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 string
\f1 \cf2 : length as ternary varint; payload bytes as-is; strings as UTF-8 bytes (to avoid inventing \'93trit-UTF\'94)\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 boolean
\f1 \cf2 : single 
\f2\b trit
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 \cf2 0
\f1 \cf2 =false, 
\f4 \cf2 2
\f1 \cf2 =true (reserve 
\f4 \cf2 1
\f1 \cf2  for future/NA)\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 float
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 double
\f1 \cf2 : length-delimited IEEE bit patterns as bytes (so values are bit-exact), or optional ternary fixed-point logical type\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 fixed
\f1 \cf2 : exact length, opaque bytes\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 enum
\f1 \cf2 : index as ternary varint\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 array
\f1 \cf2 /
\f4 \cf2 map
\f1 \cf2 : block counts as ternary varints; match Avro\'92s block framing\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 union
\f1 \cf2 : member index as ternary varint; then the member value\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In Path B, you get ternary-native payloads while remaining fully 
\f3\i \cf2 Avro-semantics-compatible
\f1\i0 \cf2 . A resolver can still do reader/writer schema evolution exactly the Avro way.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) TritRPC Envelope (Avro-bound)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Logical (trit-level) frame:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 [ MAGIC ][ VER ][ MODE ][ FLAGS ][ SCHEMA-ID ][ CONTEXT-ID ][ PAYLOAD ][ (AEAD TAG?) ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b MAGIC:
\f1\b0  9 trits unique to TritRPC.\
	\'95	
\f2\b VER:
\f1\b0  2 trits (start at 1).\
	\'95	
\f2\b MODE:
\f1\b0  1 trit \uc0\u8594  
\f4 0=B2
\f1 , 
\f4 1=B3
\f1 , 
\f4 2=Q3
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b FLAGS:
\f1\b0  3 trits (use as binary bits: AEAD, compression, reserved).\
	\'95	
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID:
\f1\b0  81 trits = multicodec\'92d 
\f2\b SHA3-256(Avro canonical form)
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b CONTEXT-ID:
\f1\b0  81 trits = multicodec\'92d 
\f2\b SHA3-256(JSON-LD @context canonicalization)
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b PAYLOAD:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Path A: the 
\f2\b Avro Binary Encoding
\f1\b0  (ABE) datum (bytes)\
	\'95	Path B: 
\f2\b Avro-T3 encoding
\f1\b0  (trits), then packed for B2 mode\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b AEAD:
\f1\b0  optional, as a trailing length-delimited field (authenticate everything before it).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Canonical Byte Packing (shared by both paths) \'97 TritPack243
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Pack 
\f2\b 5 trits \uc0\u8594  1 byte
\f1\b0  (value 0..242).\
	\'95	Tail groups (1..4 trits) \uc0\u8594  emit 
\f2\b marker 243..246
\f1\b0  + 
\f2\b 1 data byte
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	Bytes 
\f2\b 247..255
\f1\b0  are invalid in canonical form.\
	\'95	Hash/sign 
\f2\b the canonical TritPack243 bytes
\f1\b0  for transport-invariant integrity.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Avro Type Mapping (Path B: Avro-T3 codec)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Below, \'93TLEB3\'94 is a 
\f2\b base-3 varint
\f1\b0  using small trit groups with a continuation trit (conceptually like varint, ternary edition).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f8\b\fs26 \cf2 Avro Type
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f8\b\fs26 \cf2 Avro-T3 Encoding (ternary)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 null
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 no bytes/trits emitted.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 boolean
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 1 trit (0=false, 2=true; 1 reserved).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 int
\f1\b0  (32b)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 varint-bt
\f1\b0  (balanced-ternary varint).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 long
\f1\b0  (64b)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 varint-bt
\f1\b0 .
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 bytes
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 len
\f1  as TLEB3, then that many 
\f2\b bytes
\f1\b0  (opaque).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 string
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 len
\f1  as TLEB3, then UTF-8 
\f2\b bytes
\f1\b0 .
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 float
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 length-delimited 4-byte IEEE 754 (opaque bytes).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 double
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 length-delimited 8-byte IEEE 754 (opaque bytes).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 fixed(N)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 exactly N 
\f2\b bytes
\f1\b0 .
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 enum
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 symbol index as TLEB3.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 array[T]
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 Avro\'92s block framing: 
\f4 block_count
\f1  (TLEB3), then items (T3-encoded); repeat until zero block. Negative count for size-prefixed blocks can be modeled with a ternary sign (or keep Avro\'92s rule verbatim).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 map[V]
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 block_count
\f1  (TLEB3), then pairs: 
\f4 len(key)
\f1  + key bytes, then value V; repeat; zero block terminator.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 union[U\uc0\u8320 \'85U\u8342 ]
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 member_index
\f1  (TLEB3), followed by value encoded as that member\'92s type.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Logical types (recommended)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \{"type":"long","logicalType":"balancedTernary"\}
\f1  \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b force
\f1\b0  varint-bt (both paths can accept; in Path A it\'92s advisory).\
	\'95	
\f4 \{"type":"bytes","logicalType":"trits"\}
\f1  \uc0\u8594  payload interpreted as 
\f2\b trit stream
\f1\b0  (still serialized as bytes in Avro, but 
\f3\i meaning
\f1\i0  is trits; pack/unpack via TritPack243 when crossing modes).\
	\'95	Keep Avro\'92s standard logicals (decimal, date, time, timestamp, uuid) as-is (bytes/ints); define ternary alternates only if you truly need them.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Unions & defaults
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	All Avro union and default behaviors remain 
\f2\b unchanged
\f1\b0 . The codec only alters primitive encodings, not schema resolution semantics.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) JSON-LD / SALAD Semantics
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Carry a 
\f2\b CONTEXT-ID
\f1\b0  (SHA3-256 of canonicalized 
\f4 @context
\f1 ).\
	\'95	Optional: include a 
\f2\b contextURI
\f1\b0  field (length-delimited) in a control/handshake frame for resolvers.\
	\'95	Stores/indexers can resolve both 
\f2\b structure
\f1\b0  (Avro schema) and 
\f2\b meaning
\f1\b0  (JSON-LD) for knowledge graphs and semantic joins.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) Kafka & Schema Registry
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Key:
\f1\b0  typically 
\f4 \{subject, schemaVersion\}
\f1  or a stable hash.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Value:
\f1\b0  
\f2\b B2 bytes
\f1\b0  = canonical TritPack243 of the entire TritRPC envelope (header + payload [+ AEAD tag]).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Schema Registry subject:
\f1\b0  the Avro writer\'92s schema; we also pin 
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID
\f1\b0  in the envelope so consumers can verify they resolved the exact schema used to encode.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Context pinning:
\f1\b0  store 
\f4 CONTEXT-ID
\f1  as a header or inside the envelope to keep semantics explicit.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Why put the whole envelope in Kafka value?
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	AEAD, mode, flags, and IDs ride with the message; consumers can do strict verification, not rely on out-of-band contracts.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) Worked Example (both Path A and Path B)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Avro schema
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 : \cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "name"\cf4 : \cf7 "AddRequest"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "namespace"\cf4 : \cf7 "calc.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 : [\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "a"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "long"\cf4 ,\cf6 "logicalType"\cf4 :\cf7 "balancedTernary"\cf4 \}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "b"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "long"\cf4 ,\cf6 "logicalType"\cf4 :\cf7 "balancedTernary"\cf4 \}\}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 We send: 
\f4 \cf2 AddRequest\{ a=12, b=5 \}
\f1 \cf2 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.1 Path A \'97 Avro Binary in TritRPC
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Payload (ABE bytes):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Avro 
\f4 long
\f1  uses zigzag + varint.\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 12
\f1 \cf2  (zigzag) \uc0\u8594  
\f4 \cf2 24
\f1 \cf2  \uc0\u8594  varint bytes: 
\f4 \cf2 0x18
\f1 \cf2 \
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 5
\f1 \cf2  (zigzag) \uc0\u8594  
\f4 \cf2 10
\f1 \cf2  \uc0\u8594  varint bytes: 
\f4 \cf2 0x0A
\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	ABE payload = 
\f4 18 0A
\f1  (hex).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 TritRPC envelope (conceptual)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 MAGIC,VER,MODE=B2,FLAGS\
SCHEMA-ID  (SHA3 of Avro canonical form)\
CONTEXT-ID (SHA3 of JSON-LD \cf8 @context\cf4 )\
PAYLOAD = [\cf5 0x18\cf4 , \cf5 0x0A\cf4 ]     # Avro binary bytes\
(AEAD tag \cf3 if\cf4  enabled)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 If 
\f4 \cf2 MODE=B2
\f1 \cf2 , we can pass 
\f4 \cf2 18 0A
\f1 \cf2  raw. If we want strict canonicalization everywhere, we instead 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  the trit form of the envelope into bytes (recommended), then hash/sign those bytes.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.2 Path B \'97 Avro-T3 (ternary-native payload)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Balanced-ternary (big-endian digits)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 12
\f1  \uc0\u8594  base-3 
\f4 110
\f1  \uc0\u8594  balanced digits 
\f4 (+,+,0)
\f1  \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b transport trits
\f1\b0  
\f4 [2,2,1]
\f1  (map \uc0\u8722 1\u8594 0, 0\u8594 1, +1\u8594 2)\
	\'95	
\f4 5
\f1   \uc0\u8594  base-3 
\f4 12
\f1   \uc0\u8594  balanced digits 
\f4 (+,-,-)
\f1  \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b transport trits
\f1\b0  
\f4 [2,0,0]
\f1 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Encode each long as varint-bt:
\f1\b0 \
Let 
\f4 \cf2 len=3
\f1 \cf2  digits each. A simple TLEB3 for 
\f4 \cf2 len=3
\f1 \cf2  might be: one digit group with continuation=Z and value=3. Then emit the 3 trits in chosen endianness (spec: big-endian).\
\

\f2\b Field order
\f1\b0  follows Avro field order (no field tags in Avro):
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 [a (len=\cf5 3\cf4 ), a digits: \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 1\cf4 ] [b (len=\cf5 3\cf4 ), b digits: \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4 ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Now wrap with TritRPC header and (if MODE=B2) pack the whole trit stream via 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  into bytes for Kafka.\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Note:
\f1\b0  Path B preserves all Avro semantics; only the primitive codec differs.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) AEAD, Hashing, Compression
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Compute AEAD (e.g., XChaCha20-Poly1305) over the 
\f2\b canonical TritPack243 bytes of the entire envelope
\f1\b0 , excluding the trailing AEAD tag field.\
	\'95	Include header fields (MODE, FLAGS, SCHEMA-ID, CONTEXT-ID) in the associated data so transport upgrades/downgrades can\'92t be replayed/misinterpreted.\
	\'95	Compress 
\f2\b PAYLOAD
\f1\b0  (Zstd/LZ4) 
\f2\b before
\f1\b0  AEAD if 
\f4 FLAGS.compression=1
\f1 . For B3/Q3 links, compress the 
\f2\b byte form
\f1\b0  (i.e., after packing).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) Avro Resolution & Evolution (Reader/Writer)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
All Avro resolution rules apply identically:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Default values
\f1\b0 : reader defaults used when writer lacks a field.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Aliases
\f1\b0 : respected as usual.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Union resolution
\f1\b0 : reader resolves the writer\'92s chosen member by name/index as Avro specifies.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Compatibility
\f1\b0 : your registry checks (backward/forward/full) are unchanged.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Path A
\f1\b0 : Writer/reader use stock Avro libraries; envelope just carries the IDs & mode.\

\f2\b Path B
\f1\b0 : Writer/reader use the 
\f2\b Avro-T3 codec
\f1\b0  (drop-in replacement layer). Schema resolution still uses Avro\'92s logic.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) Control/Handshake Frames
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Define a tiny Avro record (in a control subject) for negotiation:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "Hello"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "tritrpc.control.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "modes"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\cf7 "int"\cf4 \}\},   \cf9 // 0=B2, 1=B3, 2=Q3\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "aead_suites"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "contextURI"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :[\cf7 "null"\cf4 ,\cf7 "string"\cf4 ],\cf6 "default"\cf4 :\cf3 null\cf4 \}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Server replies with a selected mode/suite. Thereafter, data frames use that MODE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 10) Diagnostics: Pseudo Wire Dumps
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Envelope (logical view)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 MAGIC(9t) | VER(2t) | MODE(1t) | FLAGS(3t)\
| SCHEMA-ID(81t) | CONTEXT-ID(81t)\
| PAYLOAD(...)\
| [ AEAD-TAG (len-delimited) ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Path A \'97 Avro bytes inside payload
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 PAYLOAD = ABE bytes        # example: \cf5 0x18\cf4  \cf5 0x0A
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Path B \'97 Avro-T3 payload for AddRequest
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 # a (\cf5 12\cf4 ): len=\cf5 3\cf4  \uc0\u8594  [Z:\cf3 continue\cf4 =stop | value=\cf5 3\cf4 ]\
# digits: [\cf5 2\cf4 ,\cf5 2\cf4 ,\cf5 1\cf4 ]\
# b (\cf5 5\cf4 ):  len=\cf5 3\cf4  \uc0\u8594  [Z       ...        ]\
# digits: [\cf5 2\cf4 ,\cf5 0\cf4 ,\cf5 0\cf4 ]\
\
PAYLOAD = [ TLEB3(\cf5 3\cf4 ) | \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 1\cf4  | TLEB3(\cf5 3\cf4 ) | \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4  ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 If 
\f4 \cf2 MODE=B2
\f1 \cf2 , pack the entire envelope with 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  to obtain canonical bytes.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 11) Interop Menu (what to actually ship first)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Default
\f1\b0  to 
\f2\b Path A (ABT)
\f1\b0  for zero friction:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Use existing Avro serializers.\
	\'95	Wrap in TritRPC envelope with SCHEMA-ID + CONTEXT-ID + AEAD.\
	\'95	For cross-mode, apply TritPack243 canon bytes.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Optionally
\f1\b0  add 
\f2\b Path B (Avro-T3)
\f1\b0  behind a feature flag:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Same Avro schemas and resolution.\
	\'95	New codec that swaps in ternary-friendly primitives.\
	\'95	Provides a clean bridge to future B3/Q3 links.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 12) Quick Checklist (engineering)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Compute 
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID
\f1\b0  = SHA3-256(Avro canonical form).\
	\'95	Compute 
\f2\b CONTEXT-ID
\f1\b0  = SHA3-256(canonicalized JSON-LD 
\f4 @context
\f1 ).\
	\'95	Implement 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  (trit\uc0\u8596 byte).\
	\'95	Implement 
\f2\b AEAD
\f1\b0  over canonical TritPack243 bytes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Path A
\f1\b0 : drop in Avro Binary payload.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Path B (optional)
\f1\b0 : Avro-T3 codec primitives (varint-bt, TLEB3, boolean-trit).\
	\'95	Kafka serializers/deserializers:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	value = canonical bytes (full envelope)\
	\'95	headers include MODE/FLAGS for quick filtering (optional)\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Test vectors: same messages encoded with Path A and Path B must produce 
\f2\b different payloads
\f1\b0  but identical 
\f2\b envelope behaviors
\f1\b0  (IDs, AEAD success, evolution, etc.).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 13) Self-Critique & Recommended Refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Strong points now:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Avro is truly first-class: schema, evolution, and registry integration are preserved.\
	\'95	Two clear paths: ultra-safe (Path A) and ternary-native (Path B).\
	\'95	Deterministic canonicalization via TritPack243 + AEAD story is clean and transport-agnostic.\
	\'95	JSON-LD/SALAD semantics are pinned explicitly (CONTEXT-ID).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 What to tighten next (I recommend doing all of these):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Publish test vectors
\f1\b0  for both paths (nulls, unions, arrays/maps, decimals, timestamps). Include: raw trits, packed bytes, SHA3 digests, AEAD tags.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Lock digit endianness
\f1\b0  for balanced ternary (spec currently says 
\f2\b big-endian
\f1\b0  for human readability; make it a MUST).\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Decimal logical type
\f1\b0 : define ternary fixed-point representation (Path B) or mandate Avro\'92s existing bytes encoding only (Path A).\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Union index varint size
\f1\b0 : cap digits for small unions to guarantee worst-case sizes (e.g., \uc0\u8804  9 members \u8594  1 digit).\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Streaming RPC
\f1\b0  over Avro: define chunked frames with rolling AEAD and explicit flush semantics (mirroring Avro object container block ideas).\

\f5 	6.	
\f2\b Registry augmentation
\f1\b0 : store 
\f4 \cf2 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 \cf2  and MODE support in schema metadata so readers can verify expectations before decode.\

\f5 	7.	
\f2\b B3/Q3 ECC profile
\f1\b0 : specify a default RS(GF(3^m)) or ternary stabilizer at the link layer, and a small outer CRC in the envelope for fast failure.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
If you want, I can follow up with (a) a 
\f2\b Rust
\f1\b0  reference for TritPack243 + envelope, (b) 
\f2\b Kafka SerDes
\f1\b0  for Path A, and (c) 
\f2\b Avro-T3
\f1\b0  codec scaffolding for Path B, plus a 
\f2\b test-vector pack
\f1\b0  that exercises unions, arrays/maps, and logical types.\
\
Got it\'97let\'92s ground the whole design in 
\f2\b Avro
\f1\b0  (not Protobuf) and make Avro the schema \'93source of truth,\'94 with JSON-LD/SALAD for semantics. I\'92ll give you two compatible implementation paths, then a full worked example, resolution/evolution rules, and Kafka/Schema-Registry fit. I\'92ll also include a short self-critique + refinements at the end.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 TritRPC for Avro: A Spec Sketch
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 0) Goals (Avro-first)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Avro is authoritative
\f1\b0 : structure, defaults, evolution, and resolution follow Avro specs.\
	\'95	
\f2\b JSON-LD/SALAD
\f1\b0  binds semantics; we carry a context hash alongside the Avro schema hash.\
	\'95	
\f2\b One canonical trit stream
\f1\b0  that round-trips across:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b B2
\f1\b0  (binary transport): trit stream packed into bytes\
	\'95	
\f2\b B3
\f1\b0  (native ternary transport): raw trits\
	\'95	
\f2\b Q3
\f1\b0  (qutrit rail): trits mapped to |0\uc0\u10217 ,|1\u10217 ,|2\u10217 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Deterministic canonicalization
\f1\b0  for hashing/signing, independent of transport.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Kafka-compatible
\f1\b0 : value is bytes (B2), keyed by Avro Schema ID (+ JSON-LD Context ID).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) Two Avro-Compatible Encodings (choose one or support both)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Path A \'97 Avro Binary-in-TritRPC (ABT)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Keep Avro\'92s 
\f2\b existing binary encoding
\f1\b0  for the payload, unchanged. TritRPC provides the envelope, IDs, AEAD, and byte/trit bridging.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Pros
\f1\b0 : 100% Avro-compatible; use stock Avro libraries; minimal risk.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Cons
\f1\b0 : You don\'92t get ternary-native arithmetic internally (it\'92s still Avro\'92s zigzag varints, byte order, etc.).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 How it works
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Envelope header has MAGIC/VER/MODE/FLAGS + IDs (below).\
	\'95	
\f2\b PAYLOAD
\f1\b0  is the 
\f2\b Avro Binary Encoding (ABE)
\f1\b0  of the datum, verbatim bytes.\
	\'95	For 
\f2\b B2
\f1\b0  mode, we can either:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	store the Avro bytes as-is, or\
	\'95	(optionally) wrap them inside the canonical TritPack243 block so all modes share identical canonicalization rules.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	For 
\f2\b B3/Q3
\f1\b0  modes, we 
\f2\b must
\f1\b0  pack: ABE bytes \uc0\u8594  trits using 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  (so the raw channel carries trits/qutrits).\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In Path A, Avro\'92s binary is king; TritRPC is a thin, secure, transport-agnostic envelope.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Path B \'97 Avro-T3 (native ternary encoding with Avro semantics)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Define a 
\f2\b ternary-native encoding
\f1\b0  that respects Avro\'92s 
\f3\i semantics
\f1\i0  and 
\f3\i resolution rules
\f1\i0  but swaps in ternary-friendly primitives (balanced ternary integers, a base-9 varint, etc.). Useful if you want a truly trit-native payload.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Pros
\f1\b0 : Native ternary integers, clean mapping to qutrit rails, less impedance.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Cons
\f1\b0 : You must implement a new codec (encoder/decoder), though schema/resolve logic still comes from Avro.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 How it works
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Keep Avro types and resolution rules intact (records, arrays, maps, unions, etc.).\
	\'95	Replace primitive encodings with ternary equivalents:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 int
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 long
\f1 \cf2 : 
\f2\b balanced-ternary
\f1\b0  varints (
\f4 \cf2 varint-bt
\f1 \cf2 )\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 bytes
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 string
\f1 \cf2 : length as ternary varint; payload bytes as-is; strings as UTF-8 bytes (to avoid inventing \'93trit-UTF\'94)\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 boolean
\f1 \cf2 : single 
\f2\b trit
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 \cf2 0
\f1 \cf2 =false, 
\f4 \cf2 2
\f1 \cf2 =true (reserve 
\f4 \cf2 1
\f1 \cf2  for future/NA)\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 float
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 double
\f1 \cf2 : length-delimited IEEE bit patterns as bytes (so values are bit-exact), or optional ternary fixed-point logical type\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 fixed
\f1 \cf2 : exact length, opaque bytes\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 enum
\f1 \cf2 : index as ternary varint\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 array
\f1 \cf2 /
\f4 \cf2 map
\f1 \cf2 : block counts as ternary varints; match Avro\'92s block framing\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 union
\f1 \cf2 : member index as ternary varint; then the member value\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In Path B, you get ternary-native payloads while remaining fully 
\f3\i \cf2 Avro-semantics-compatible
\f1\i0 \cf2 . A resolver can still do reader/writer schema evolution exactly the Avro way.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) TritRPC Envelope (Avro-bound)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Logical (trit-level) frame:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 [ MAGIC ][ VER ][ MODE ][ FLAGS ][ SCHEMA-ID ][ CONTEXT-ID ][ PAYLOAD ][ (AEAD TAG?) ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b MAGIC:
\f1\b0  9 trits unique to TritRPC.\
	\'95	
\f2\b VER:
\f1\b0  2 trits (start at 1).\
	\'95	
\f2\b MODE:
\f1\b0  1 trit \uc0\u8594  
\f4 0=B2
\f1 , 
\f4 1=B3
\f1 , 
\f4 2=Q3
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b FLAGS:
\f1\b0  3 trits (use as binary bits: AEAD, compression, reserved).\
	\'95	
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID:
\f1\b0  81 trits = multicodec\'92d 
\f2\b SHA3-256(Avro canonical form)
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b CONTEXT-ID:
\f1\b0  81 trits = multicodec\'92d 
\f2\b SHA3-256(JSON-LD @context canonicalization)
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b PAYLOAD:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Path A: the 
\f2\b Avro Binary Encoding
\f1\b0  (ABE) datum (bytes)\
	\'95	Path B: 
\f2\b Avro-T3 encoding
\f1\b0  (trits), then packed for B2 mode\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b AEAD:
\f1\b0  optional, as a trailing length-delimited field (authenticate everything before it).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Canonical Byte Packing (shared by both paths) \'97 TritPack243
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Pack 
\f2\b 5 trits \uc0\u8594  1 byte
\f1\b0  (value 0..242).\
	\'95	Tail groups (1..4 trits) \uc0\u8594  emit 
\f2\b marker 243..246
\f1\b0  + 
\f2\b 1 data byte
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	Bytes 
\f2\b 247..255
\f1\b0  are invalid in canonical form.\
	\'95	Hash/sign 
\f2\b the canonical TritPack243 bytes
\f1\b0  for transport-invariant integrity.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Avro Type Mapping (Path B: Avro-T3 codec)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Below, \'93TLEB3\'94 is a 
\f2\b base-3 varint
\f1\b0  using small trit groups with a continuation trit (conceptually like varint, ternary edition).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f8\b\fs26 \cf2 Avro Type
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f8\b\fs26 \cf2 Avro-T3 Encoding (ternary)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 null
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 no bytes/trits emitted.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 boolean
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 1 trit (0=false, 2=true; 1 reserved).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 int
\f1\b0  (32b)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 varint-bt
\f1\b0  (balanced-ternary varint).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 long
\f1\b0  (64b)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 varint-bt
\f1\b0 .
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 bytes
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 len
\f1  as TLEB3, then that many 
\f2\b bytes
\f1\b0  (opaque).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 string
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 len
\f1  as TLEB3, then UTF-8 
\f2\b bytes
\f1\b0 .
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 float
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 length-delimited 4-byte IEEE 754 (opaque bytes).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 double
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 length-delimited 8-byte IEEE 754 (opaque bytes).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 fixed(N)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 exactly N 
\f2\b bytes
\f1\b0 .
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 enum
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 symbol index as TLEB3.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 array[T]
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\fs26 \cf2 Avro\'92s block framing: 
\f4 block_count
\f1  (TLEB3), then items (T3-encoded); repeat until zero block. Negative count for size-prefixed blocks can be modeled with a ternary sign (or keep Avro\'92s rule verbatim).
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 map[V]
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 block_count
\f1  (TLEB3), then pairs: 
\f4 len(key)
\f1  + key bytes, then value V; repeat; zero block terminator.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 union[U\uc0\u8320 \'85U\u8342 ]
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f4\fs26 \cf2 member_index
\f1  (TLEB3), followed by value encoded as that member\'92s type.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Logical types (recommended)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \{"type":"long","logicalType":"balancedTernary"\}
\f1  \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b force
\f1\b0  varint-bt (both paths can accept; in Path A it\'92s advisory).\
	\'95	
\f4 \{"type":"bytes","logicalType":"trits"\}
\f1  \uc0\u8594  payload interpreted as 
\f2\b trit stream
\f1\b0  (still serialized as bytes in Avro, but 
\f3\i meaning
\f1\i0  is trits; pack/unpack via TritPack243 when crossing modes).\
	\'95	Keep Avro\'92s standard logicals (decimal, date, time, timestamp, uuid) as-is (bytes/ints); define ternary alternates only if you truly need them.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Unions & defaults
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	All Avro union and default behaviors remain 
\f2\b unchanged
\f1\b0 . The codec only alters primitive encodings, not schema resolution semantics.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) JSON-LD / SALAD Semantics
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Carry a 
\f2\b CONTEXT-ID
\f1\b0  (SHA3-256 of canonicalized 
\f4 @context
\f1 ).\
	\'95	Optional: include a 
\f2\b contextURI
\f1\b0  field (length-delimited) in a control/handshake frame for resolvers.\
	\'95	Stores/indexers can resolve both 
\f2\b structure
\f1\b0  (Avro schema) and 
\f2\b meaning
\f1\b0  (JSON-LD) for knowledge graphs and semantic joins.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) Kafka & Schema Registry
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Key:
\f1\b0  typically 
\f4 \{subject, schemaVersion\}
\f1  or a stable hash.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Value:
\f1\b0  
\f2\b B2 bytes
\f1\b0  = canonical TritPack243 of the entire TritRPC envelope (header + payload [+ AEAD tag]).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Schema Registry subject:
\f1\b0  the Avro writer\'92s schema; we also pin 
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID
\f1\b0  in the envelope so consumers can verify they resolved the exact schema used to encode.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Context pinning:
\f1\b0  store 
\f4 CONTEXT-ID
\f1  as a header or inside the envelope to keep semantics explicit.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Why put the whole envelope in Kafka value?
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	AEAD, mode, flags, and IDs ride with the message; consumers can do strict verification, not rely on out-of-band contracts.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) Worked Example (both Path A and Path B)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Avro schema
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 : \cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "name"\cf4 : \cf7 "AddRequest"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "namespace"\cf4 : \cf7 "calc.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 : [\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "a"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "long"\cf4 ,\cf6 "logicalType"\cf4 :\cf7 "balancedTernary"\cf4 \}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "b"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "long"\cf4 ,\cf6 "logicalType"\cf4 :\cf7 "balancedTernary"\cf4 \}\}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 We send: 
\f4 \cf2 AddRequest\{ a=12, b=5 \}
\f1 \cf2 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.1 Path A \'97 Avro Binary in TritRPC
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Payload (ABE bytes):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Avro 
\f4 long
\f1  uses zigzag + varint.\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 12
\f1 \cf2  (zigzag) \uc0\u8594  
\f4 \cf2 24
\f1 \cf2  \uc0\u8594  varint bytes: 
\f4 \cf2 0x18
\f1 \cf2 \
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 5
\f1 \cf2  (zigzag) \uc0\u8594  
\f4 \cf2 10
\f1 \cf2  \uc0\u8594  varint bytes: 
\f4 \cf2 0x0A
\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	ABE payload = 
\f4 18 0A
\f1  (hex).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 TritRPC envelope (conceptual)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 MAGIC,VER,MODE=B2,FLAGS\
SCHEMA-ID  (SHA3 of Avro canonical form)\
CONTEXT-ID (SHA3 of JSON-LD \cf8 @context\cf4 )\
PAYLOAD = [\cf5 0x18\cf4 , \cf5 0x0A\cf4 ]     # Avro binary bytes\
(AEAD tag \cf3 if\cf4  enabled)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 If 
\f4 \cf2 MODE=B2
\f1 \cf2 , we can pass 
\f4 \cf2 18 0A
\f1 \cf2  raw. If we want strict canonicalization everywhere, we instead 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  the trit form of the envelope into bytes (recommended), then hash/sign those bytes.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.2 Path B \'97 Avro-T3 (ternary-native payload)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Balanced-ternary (big-endian digits)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 12
\f1  \uc0\u8594  base-3 
\f4 110
\f1  \uc0\u8594  balanced digits 
\f4 (+,+,0)
\f1  \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b transport trits
\f1\b0  
\f4 [2,2,1]
\f1  (map \uc0\u8722 1\u8594 0, 0\u8594 1, +1\u8594 2)\
	\'95	
\f4 5
\f1   \uc0\u8594  base-3 
\f4 12
\f1   \uc0\u8594  balanced digits 
\f4 (+,-,-)
\f1  \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b transport trits
\f1\b0  
\f4 [2,0,0]
\f1 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Encode each long as varint-bt:
\f1\b0 \
Let 
\f4 \cf2 len=3
\f1 \cf2  digits each. A simple TLEB3 for 
\f4 \cf2 len=3
\f1 \cf2  might be: one digit group with continuation=Z and value=3. Then emit the 3 trits in chosen endianness (spec: big-endian).\
\

\f2\b Field order
\f1\b0  follows Avro field order (no field tags in Avro):
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 [a (len=\cf5 3\cf4 ), a digits: \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 1\cf4 ] [b (len=\cf5 3\cf4 ), b digits: \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4 ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Now wrap with TritRPC header and (if MODE=B2) pack the whole trit stream via 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  into bytes for Kafka.\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Note:
\f1\b0  Path B preserves all Avro semantics; only the primitive codec differs.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) AEAD, Hashing, Compression
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Compute AEAD (e.g., XChaCha20-Poly1305) over the 
\f2\b canonical TritPack243 bytes of the entire envelope
\f1\b0 , excluding the trailing AEAD tag field.\
	\'95	Include header fields (MODE, FLAGS, SCHEMA-ID, CONTEXT-ID) in the associated data so transport upgrades/downgrades can\'92t be replayed/misinterpreted.\
	\'95	Compress 
\f2\b PAYLOAD
\f1\b0  (Zstd/LZ4) 
\f2\b before
\f1\b0  AEAD if 
\f4 FLAGS.compression=1
\f1 . For B3/Q3 links, compress the 
\f2\b byte form
\f1\b0  (i.e., after packing).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) Avro Resolution & Evolution (Reader/Writer)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
All Avro resolution rules apply identically:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Default values
\f1\b0 : reader defaults used when writer lacks a field.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Aliases
\f1\b0 : respected as usual.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Union resolution
\f1\b0 : reader resolves the writer\'92s chosen member by name/index as Avro specifies.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Compatibility
\f1\b0 : your registry checks (backward/forward/full) are unchanged.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Path A
\f1\b0 : Writer/reader use stock Avro libraries; envelope just carries the IDs & mode.\

\f2\b Path B
\f1\b0 : Writer/reader use the 
\f2\b Avro-T3 codec
\f1\b0  (drop-in replacement layer). Schema resolution still uses Avro\'92s logic.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) Control/Handshake Frames
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Define a tiny Avro record (in a control subject) for negotiation:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "Hello"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "tritrpc.control.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "modes"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\cf7 "int"\cf4 \}\},   \cf9 // 0=B2, 1=B3, 2=Q3\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "aead_suites"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "contextURI"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :[\cf7 "null"\cf4 ,\cf7 "string"\cf4 ],\cf6 "default"\cf4 :\cf3 null\cf4 \}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Server replies with a selected mode/suite. Thereafter, data frames use that MODE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 10) Diagnostics: Pseudo Wire Dumps
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Envelope (logical view)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 MAGIC(9t) | VER(2t) | MODE(1t) | FLAGS(3t)\
| SCHEMA-ID(81t) | CONTEXT-ID(81t)\
| PAYLOAD(...)\
| [ AEAD-TAG (len-delimited) ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Path A \'97 Avro bytes inside payload
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 PAYLOAD = ABE bytes        # example: \cf5 0x18\cf4  \cf5 0x0A
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Path B \'97 Avro-T3 payload for AddRequest
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 # a (\cf5 12\cf4 ): len=\cf5 3\cf4  \uc0\u8594  [Z:\cf3 continue\cf4 =stop | value=\cf5 3\cf4 ]\
# digits: [\cf5 2\cf4 ,\cf5 2\cf4 ,\cf5 1\cf4 ]\
# b (\cf5 5\cf4 ):  len=\cf5 3\cf4  \uc0\u8594  [Z       ...        ]\
# digits: [\cf5 2\cf4 ,\cf5 0\cf4 ,\cf5 0\cf4 ]\
\
PAYLOAD = [ TLEB3(\cf5 3\cf4 ) | \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 1\cf4  | TLEB3(\cf5 3\cf4 ) | \cf5 2\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4  \cf5 0\cf4  ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 If 
\f4 \cf2 MODE=B2
\f1 \cf2 , pack the entire envelope with 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  to obtain canonical bytes.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 11) Interop Menu (what to actually ship first)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Default
\f1\b0  to 
\f2\b Path A (ABT)
\f1\b0  for zero friction:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Use existing Avro serializers.\
	\'95	Wrap in TritRPC envelope with SCHEMA-ID + CONTEXT-ID + AEAD.\
	\'95	For cross-mode, apply TritPack243 canon bytes.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Optionally
\f1\b0  add 
\f2\b Path B (Avro-T3)
\f1\b0  behind a feature flag:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Same Avro schemas and resolution.\
	\'95	New codec that swaps in ternary-friendly primitives.\
	\'95	Provides a clean bridge to future B3/Q3 links.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 12) Quick Checklist (engineering)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Compute 
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID
\f1\b0  = SHA3-256(Avro canonical form).\
	\'95	Compute 
\f2\b CONTEXT-ID
\f1\b0  = SHA3-256(canonicalized JSON-LD 
\f4 @context
\f1 ).\
	\'95	Implement 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  (trit\uc0\u8596 byte).\
	\'95	Implement 
\f2\b AEAD
\f1\b0  over canonical TritPack243 bytes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Path A
\f1\b0 : drop in Avro Binary payload.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Path B (optional)
\f1\b0 : Avro-T3 codec primitives (varint-bt, TLEB3, boolean-trit).\
	\'95	Kafka serializers/deserializers:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	value = canonical bytes (full envelope)\
	\'95	headers include MODE/FLAGS for quick filtering (optional)\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Test vectors: same messages encoded with Path A and Path B must produce 
\f2\b different payloads
\f1\b0  but identical 
\f2\b envelope behaviors
\f1\b0  (IDs, AEAD success, evolution, etc.).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 13) Self-Critique & Recommended Refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Strong points now:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Avro is truly first-class: schema, evolution, and registry integration are preserved.\
	\'95	Two clear paths: ultra-safe (Path A) and ternary-native (Path B).\
	\'95	Deterministic canonicalization via TritPack243 + AEAD story is clean and transport-agnostic.\
	\'95	JSON-LD/SALAD semantics are pinned explicitly (CONTEXT-ID).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 What to tighten next (I recommend doing all of these):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Publish test vectors
\f1\b0  for both paths (nulls, unions, arrays/maps, decimals, timestamps). Include: raw trits, packed bytes, SHA3 digests, AEAD tags.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Lock digit endianness
\f1\b0  for balanced ternary (spec currently says 
\f2\b big-endian
\f1\b0  for human readability; make it a MUST).\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Decimal logical type
\f1\b0 : define ternary fixed-point representation (Path B) or mandate Avro\'92s existing bytes encoding only (Path A).\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Union index varint size
\f1\b0 : cap digits for small unions to guarantee worst-case sizes (e.g., \uc0\u8804  9 members \u8594  1 digit).\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Streaming RPC
\f1\b0  over Avro: define chunked frames with rolling AEAD and explicit flush semantics (mirroring Avro object container block ideas).\

\f5 	6.	
\f2\b Registry augmentation
\f1\b0 : store 
\f4 \cf2 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 \cf2  and MODE support in schema metadata so readers can verify expectations before decode.\

\f5 	7.	
\f2\b B3/Q3 ECC profile
\f1\b0 : specify a default RS(GF(3^m)) or ternary stabilizer at the link layer, and a small outer CRC in the envelope for fast failure.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
If you want, I can follow up with (a) a 
\f2\b Rust
\f1\b0  reference for TritPack243 + envelope, (b) 
\f2\b Kafka SerDes
\f1\b0  for Path A, and (c) 
\f2\b Avro-T3
\f1\b0  codec scaffolding for Path B, plus a 
\f2\b test-vector pack
\f1\b0  that exercises unions, arrays/maps, and logical types.\
\
You\'92re right\'97the local path shouldn\'92t depend on Airflow. Here\'92s a corrected, 
\f2\b agentic, multi-tier orchestration design
\f1\b0  that uses 
\f2\b Jupiter-style dispersed computing
\f1\b0 , 
\f2\b Ray task/actor placement
\f1\b0 , and 
\f2\b K8s Poseidon/Firmament
\f1\b0  for global\uc0\u8594 regional\u8594 fog\u8594 local\u8594 node scheduling\'97while keeping 
\f2\b Avro+JSON-LD
\f1\b0  contracts and the 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  bridge intact.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Orchestration & Promotion (Corrected): Agentic, Dispersed, and Avro-Native
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 0) Principles
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Local-first execution
\f1\b0 : no Airflow on-device; use 
\f2\b Ray actors/workflows
\f1\b0  and a lean 
\f2\b local MQ
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Agentic beyond one node
\f1\b0 : a mesh of cooperative agents (planner/dispatcher/observer/governor) spans nodes, clusters, and regions.\
	\'95	
\f2\b One contract everywhere
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b Avro schema
\f1\b0  (+ Schema Registry) and 
\f2\b JSON-LD @context
\f1\b0  IDs ride in the 
\f2\b TritRPC envelope
\f1\b0  across all tiers.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) Roles & Tiers
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Agent Mesh (runs at every tier)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Planner
\f1\b0 : builds task graphs; composes Ray workflows; sets placement intents.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Dispatcher
\f1\b0 : submits jobs to the nearest capable scheduler (Ray on K8s).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Observer
\f1\b0 : watches SLOs, locality, privacy constraints, and energy/cost.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Governor
\f1\b0 : enforces policy (privacy/sovereignty, cost caps, residency).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Schedulers by tier
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Global/Regional
\f1\b0 : Kubernetes + 
\f2\b Poseidon (Firmament)
\f1\b0  scheduler for multi-objective placement (CPU/GPU locality, net-cost, anti-affinity); 
\f2\b Ray clusters on K8s
\f1\b0  for execution.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Fog/Edge Clusters
\f1\b0 : K8s (K3s acceptable) + Poseidon; Ray with 
\f2\b placement groups
\f1\b0  for gang scheduling.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Node/Device
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b Ray runtime
\f1\b0  (local) + 
\f2\b NATS/JetStream
\f1\b0  (or ZeroMQ) as the on-device MQ.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) Corrected Promotion Pipelines
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 A) Local/Node (no Airflow)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 [Ingest] -> [Stage] -> [Promote] -> [Publish]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Ingest (Local)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Subscribe to 
\f2\b NATS/JetStream
\f1\b0  topics.\
	\'95	Validate 
\f2\b Avro
\f1\b0  using embedded Schema Registry cache; attach provenance.\
	\'95	Persist to a content-addressed local log (WAL).\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Stage (Local AtomSpace)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Ray 
\f2\b Actor: AtomWriter
\f1\b0  ingests facts/links with confidences & provenance.\
	\'95	Local JSON-LD context cache resolves terms without leaking them.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Promote (Local Ray Workflow)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Ray 
\f2\b Workflow
\f1\b0  runs deterministic 
\f2\b Atom\uc0\u8594 RDF
\f1\b0 * mapping.\
	\'95	
\f2\b SHACL
\f1\b0  constraints executed 
\f2\b locally
\f1\b0  (no network).\
	\'95	Produce 
\f2\b immutable named graphs
\f1\b0  in a local triple store (RDF4J/Blazegraph embedded).\
	\'95	If privacy policy requires, promotion stays local; otherwise, prepare a 
\f2\b TritRPC envelope
\f1\b0  for uplink.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Publish (Local)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Optional: expose a 
\f2\b local SPARQL endpoint
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	For uplink, send 
\f2\b TritRPC(B2)
\f1\b0  frames into a fog/regional ingress topic (NATS\uc0\u8594 Kafka bridge).\
	\'95	
\f2\b No Airflow involvement
\f1\b0  here.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 B) Fog/Regional
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Same four stages, but executed on 
\f2\b Ray-on-K8s
\f1\b0 ; Poseidon/Firmament places pods considering:\
(i) data locality (Kafka partition, object store proximity),\
(ii) accelerator fit (GPU/NPU),\
(iii) privacy/sovereignty (namespace/label constraints),\
(iv) network cost/latency.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 C) Global/Core
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Long-running backfills, large joins, catalog curation: can use 
\f2\b Airflow or Argo Workflows
\f1\b0  to orchestrate 
\f2\b Ray
\f1\b0  jobs on K8s.\
	\'95	Airflow is 
\f3\i only
\f1\i0  in global/regional control loops\'97not local nodes.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Placement & Policy (concrete mechanics)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.1 Ray + Poseidon/Firmament
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Ray Actors/Tasks
\f1\b0  carry a 
\f4 PlacementIntent
\f1 :
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 data_affinity: \{topics, partitions, object_keys\}\
resource_profile: \{cpu, mem, gpu, npu\}\
privacy: \{residency=\'93local|fog|region|global\'94, sensitivity=\'93low|med|high\'94\}\
qos: \{p95_ms, p99_ms\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Dispatcher
\f1\b0  translates intents into:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Ray 
\f2\b placement groups
\f1\b0  (PACK/SPREAD/STRICT_PACK).\
	\'95	K8s 
\f2\b node selectors/affinity/taints
\f1\b0  (e.g., 
\f4 \cf2 node.locality=neighborhood-12
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 data.kafka.rack=us-east-1a
\f1 \cf2 ).\
	\'95	Poseidon/Firmament 
\f2\b cost vectors
\f1\b0  (bandwidth, latency, preemption risk, power).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Scoring
\f1\b0  (sketch):\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \\text\{score\} = w_L \\cdot \\text\{locality\} - w_N \\cdot \\text\{net\\_cost\} + w_R \\cdot \\text\{resource\\_fit\} + w_Q \\cdot \\text\{QoS\\_headroom\} - w_P \\cdot \\text\{policy\\_violation\}
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
Hard constraints (residency/privacy) 
\f2\b must
\f1\b0  pass; otherwise reject.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.2 Queues & Backpressure
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Local
\f1\b0 : NATS/JetStream with per-subject limits and DLQs.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Fog/Regional/Core
\f1\b0 : Kafka with schema-enforced topics.\
	\'95	Bridges: 
\f2\b NATS\uc0\u8596 Kafka
\f1\b0  connectors pass 
\f2\b TritRPC(B2)
\f1\b0  frames unchanged; Avro+JSON-LD IDs ride in the envelope.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) Avro + JSON-LD + TritRPC in this fabric
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Every message
\f1\b0  (local to global) is an Avro datum with a 
\f2\b JSON-LD @context
\f1\b0 ; both hashed as 
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b CONTEXT-ID
\f1\b0  in the 
\f2\b TritRPC envelope
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Local promotion
\f1\b0  uses the same IDs as global promotion\'97ensuring semantic continuity.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Path A
\f1\b0  (Avro Binary inside TritRPC) is default everywhere; 
\f2\b Path B
\f1\b0  (Avro-T3) is opt-in where ternary/Q3 links exist.\
	\'95	
\f2\b AEAD/signatures
\f1\b0  computed on 
\f2\b canonical bytes (TritPack243)
\f1\b0 \'97transport invariant.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) Agentic Beyond One Node (multi-node autonomy)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Agent protocol (lightweight)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Observer
\f1\b0  gossips load/latency/privacy/energy metrics.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Planner
\f1\b0  proposes a distributed plan (Ray DAG), embedding placement intents per stage.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Governor
\f1\b0  checks policy (residency, data sensitivity).\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Dispatcher
\f1\b0  commits to Ray/K8s where constraints & scores pass.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Observer
\f1\b0  adapts (scale-out, migrate actors, spill to fog) when SLOs slip.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Fault handling
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	If a local SHACL gate fails, 
\f2\b Governor
\f1\b0  triggers:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	quarantine graph (local named graph, sealed),\
	\'95	emit a redacted 
\f2\b diagnostic TritRPC
\f1\b0  to fog (for human review),\
	\'95	retry only when policy allows.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) Corrected \'93Promotion\'94 Summaries (by tier)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Local (device/node) \'97 Ray-only
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Ingest: NATS/JetStream \uc0\u8594  Avro validate \u8594  local WAL\
	\'95	Stage: AtomSpace via Ray Actor\
	\'95	Promote: Ray Workflow (Atom\uc0\u8594 RDF* + SHACL)\
	\'95	Publish: local SPARQL; optional uplink via TritRPC(B2)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Fog/Regional \'97 Ray-on-K8s + Poseidon
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Ingest: Kafka\
	\'95	Stage/Promote: Ray actors/workflows; SHACL at cluster scale\
	\'95	Publish: SPARQL (regional); CK updates; mirror up\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Global/Core \'97 Airflow/Argo orchestrates Ray
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Cross-tenant backfills, curation, catalog/versioning; SHACL at corpus scale\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) Concrete specs that don\'92t change (to anchor the wire)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Envelope
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 [MAGIC][VER][MODE][FLAGS][SCHEMA-ID][CONTEXT-ID][PAYLOAD][AEAD?]
\f1 \
	\'95	
\f2\b Canonical bytes
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  for all modes; AEAD over canonical bytes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Varints & signed ints
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b TLEB3
\f1\b0 , 
\f2\b balanced-ternary
\f1\b0  (endianness = 
\f2\b MUST big-endian
\f1\b0 ).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Kafka/Local MQ
\f1\b0 : carry the 
\f2\b same TritRPC bytes
\f1\b0 ; schema+context resolved via Registry/cache.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) Minimal CRDs / Polices (K8s level)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b TritWorkflow
\f1\b0 : declarative Ray DAG with placement intents + privacy/QoS.\
	\'95	
\f2\b PlacementPolicy
\f1\b0 : default weights for Firmament scoring per namespace.\
	\'95	
\f2\b DataSovereigntyPolicy
\f1\b0 : residency, export rules, redaction classes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b SemanticContext
\f1\b0 : binds schema subjects to JSON-LD contexts; caches 
\f4 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) Self-critique (and how to refine)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Good
\f1\b0 : Removes Airflow from local loops; adds 
\f2\b agent mesh
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b Firmament-aware
\f1\b0  placement; keeps Avro/JSON-LD/TritRPC invariants; unifies queues with NATS\uc0\u8596 Kafka bridges.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Gaps
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx660\tx820\li820\fi-820\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	Publish 
\f2\b PlacementIntent\uc0\u8594 K8s/Ray
\f1\b0  translation library + Poseidon weights.\

\f5 	2.	Provide 
\f2\b Ray Workflow templates
\f1\b0  for Stage/Promote/Publish with SHACL actors.\

\f5 	3.	Ship 
\f2\b local triple-store
\f1\b0  container + WAL/compaction policy.\

\f5 	4.	Add 
\f2\b SLO-driven migration
\f1\b0  (Observer-triggered actor rescheduling).\

\f5 	5.	Formalize 
\f2\b agent protocol
\f1\b0  (protobuf/Avro\'97use Avro!) and heartbeat/backoff rules.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 10) Immediate upgrades you\'92ll notice
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Local nodes make promotion decisions 
\f2\b without
\f1\b0  central schedulers.\
	\'95	Multi-node teams act 
\f2\b agentically
\f1\b0  (observe\uc0\u8594 plan\u8594 schedule\u8594 adapt) across nodes/clusters.\
	\'95	Semantics and security never drift: 
\f2\b same Avro+JSON-LD IDs
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b same TritRPC envelope
\f1\b0  at every hop.\
\
If you want, I\'92ll deliver:\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	a 
\f2\b Ray Workflow
\f1\b0  skeleton for Local Stage/Promote (with SHACL actor),\

\f5 	2.	a 
\f2\b PlacementIntent\uc0\u8594 K8s/Ray
\f1\b0  mapper (labels/taints + placement groups), and\

\f5 	3.	a 
\f2\b NATS\uc0\u8596 Kafka
\f1\b0  bridge config that preserves TritRPC envelopes and validates 
\f2\b SCHEMA-ID/CONTEXT-ID
\f1\b0  at the edge.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Awesome call. Let\'92s fold a 
\f2\b local, docker-machine\'96style VM space
\f1\b0  into the architecture so a single laptop/desktop has 
\f2\b on-demand, policy-aware isolation
\f1\b0  with 
\f2\b resizable resources
\f1\b0 , 
\f2\b taints/tolerations
\f1\b0 , and 
\f2\b user-driven orchestration
\f1\b0  \'97 without breaking Avro+JSON-LD+TritRPC or the agentic scheduling story.\
\

\f0\b\fs44 Local \'93Machine Space\'94 (LMS): design add-on
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) What it is
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
A lightweight 
\f2\b local hypervisor VM
\f1\b0  (e.g., QEMU/HyperKit/Apple Virtualization) that hosts a 
\f2\b K3s
\f1\b0  cluster with:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Node classes
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 lms-control
\f1 , 
\f4 lms-work
\f1 , 
\f4 lms-secure
\f1 , optionally 
\f4 lms-gpu
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Runtime isolation
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b Kata Containers
\f1\b0  or 
\f2\b Firecracker
\f1\b0  (microVMs) for high-trust workloads; 
\f2\b gVisor
\f1\b0  for hardened userland sandboxes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b CNI
\f1\b0 : Cilium/Calico with NetworkPolicies and per-namespace egress limits.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Storage
\f1\b0 : dynamic LVM-thin or qcow2 disks; 
\f2\b resize
\f1\b0  on demand.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Ray local cluster
\f1\b0 : pre-wired to K3s; integrates with the global agent mesh.\
\
This VM is managed via a 
\f2\b lms CLI
\f1\b0  (docker-machine vibes): create, start, stop, 
\f2\b resize CPU/RAM/disk
\f1\b0 , attach GPUs/NPUs, set taints/tolerations, and apply 
\f2\b user profiles
\f1\b0  that turn resources on/off.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) Why it matters
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Isolation
\f1\b0 : experiments, untrusted code, and PII-processing jobs run in microVMs, not on the host OS.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Elasticity
\f1\b0 : turn cores/RAM/GPU on for a session; release when done.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Policy
\f1\b0 : per-user 
\f2\b profiles
\f1\b0  enforce access, residency, and egress rules locally (no central admin needed).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Continuity
\f1\b0 : same 
\f2\b Avro+JSON-LD IDs
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  envelope; local MQ (NATS/JetStream) mirrors Kafka.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Core mechanics
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.1 Lifecycle & resize
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Create
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 lms create --cpus 6 --memory 24g --disk 200g --name dev-a
\f1 \
	\'95	
\f2\b Resize
\f1\b0  (hot-plug where supported; else drain\uc0\u8594 reboot):\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	CPU/RAM: 
\f4 \cf2 lms resize dev-a --cpus 10 --memory 40g
\f1 \cf2 \
	\'95	Disk: 
\f4 \cf2 lms disk expand dev-a --size 500g
\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b GPU/TPU passthrough
\f1\b0  (capability-gated): 
\f4 lms attach-gpu dev-a --device mlx:0
\f1 \
	\'95	
\f2\b Profiles
\f1\b0  flip on/off resource classes (see \'a73.3).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.2 K3s node topology (inside LMS)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Node 
\f4 lms-control
\f1  (taint: 
\f4 role=control:NoSchedule
\f1 )\
	\'95	Node 
\f4 lms-work
\f1  (default workloads)\
	\'95	Node 
\f4 lms-secure
\f1  (taints: 
\f4 isolation=kata:NoSchedule
\f1 , 
\f4 egress=deny:NoSchedule
\f1 )\
	\'95	Optional Node 
\f4 lms-gpu
\f1  (taints: 
\f4 accel=gpu:NoSchedule
\f1 )\
\
Ray workers map to these nodes via 
\f2\b placement groups
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b nodeSelectors
\f1\b0 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.3 User orchestration: profiles & policies
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
Two CRDs stored in the LMS control plane:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 UserResourceProfile
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf6 apiVersion:\cf4  \cf7 lms.local/v1\cf4 \
\cf6 kind:\cf4  \cf7 UserResourceProfile\cf4 \
\cf6 metadata:\cf4  \{ \cf6 name:\cf4  \cf7 michael-dev\cf4  \}\
\cf6 spec:\cf4 \
  \cf6 cpu:\cf4  \{ \cf6 min:\cf4  \cf5 4\cf4 , \cf6 max:\cf4  \cf5 16\cf4 , \cf6 burst:\cf4  \cf5 4\cf4  \}\
  \cf6 memory:\cf4  \{ \cf6 min:\cf4  \cf7 "8Gi"\cf4 , \cf6 max:\cf4  \cf7 "64Gi"\cf4 , \cf6 burst:\cf4  \cf7 "8Gi"\cf4  \}\
  \cf6 disk:\cf4 \
    \cf6 pools:\cf4 \
      \cf5 -\cf4  \cf6 name:\cf4  \cf7 fast\cf4 \
        \cf6 class:\cf4  \cf7 nvme\cf4 \
        \cf6 quota:\cf4  \cf7 "200Gi"\cf4 \
      \cf5 -\cf4  \cf6 name:\cf4  \cf7 cold\cf4 \
        \cf6 class:\cf4  \cf7 ssd\cf4 \
        \cf6 quota:\cf4  \cf7 "2Ti"\cf4 \
  \cf6 accelerators:\cf4 \
    \cf6 gpu:\cf4  \{ \cf6 allowed:\cf4  \cf3 true\cf4 , \cf6 models:\cf4  [\cf7 "mps"\cf4 ,\cf7 "rtx*"\cf4 ], \cf6 max:\cf4  \cf5 1\cf4  \}\
  \cf6 isolation:\cf4 \
    \cf6 runtimeDefault:\cf4  \cf7 gvisor\cf4 \
    \cf6 securePool:\cf4  \cf7 kata\cf4 \
  \cf6 network:\cf4 \
    \cf6 egress:\cf4  \{ \cf6 allowedCIDRs:\cf4  [\cf7 "10.0.0.0/8"\cf4 ,\cf7 "*.corp"\cf4 ], \cf6 denyAllElse:\cf4  \cf3 true\cf4  \}\
  \cf6 defaults:\cf4 \
    \cf6 scheduleOn:\cf4  [\cf7 "lms-work"\cf4 ]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 AccessRestrictionPolicy
\f1\b0  (OPA Gatekeeper constraints implied)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf6 apiVersion:\cf4  \cf7 lms.local/v1\cf4 \
\cf6 kind:\cf4  \cf7 AccessRestrictionPolicy\cf4 \
\cf6 metadata:\cf4  \{ \cf6 name:\cf4  \cf7 pii-guard\cf4  \}\
\cf6 spec:\cf4 \
  \cf6 namespaces:\cf4  [\cf7 "pii-*"\cf4 ]\
  \cf6 mustUseRuntime:\cf4  \cf7 "kata"\cf4 \
  \cf6 egress:\cf4  \cf7 "deny"\cf4 \
  \cf6 volumeClass:\cf4  \cf7 "encrypted-fast"\cf4 \
  \cf6 tlsRequired:\cf4  \cf3 true
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 The 
\f2\b lms profile apply
\f1\b0  command toggles node taints, NetworkPolicies, ResourceQuotas, LimitRanges, and default RuntimeClasses accordingly.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.4 Taints/tolerations examples
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Mark secure node:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 kubectl taint nodes lms-secure isolation=kata:NoSchedule\
kubectl taint nodes lms-secure egress=deny:NoSchedule
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 	\'95	Workload tolerations:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf6 tolerations:\cf4 \
  \cf5 -\cf4  \cf6 key:\cf4  \cf7 isolation\cf4 \
    \cf6 operator:\cf4  \cf7 Equal\cf4 \
    \cf6 value:\cf4  \cf7 kata\cf4 \
    \cf6 effect:\cf4  \cf7 NoSchedule\cf4 \
  \cf5 -\cf4  \cf6 key:\cf4  \cf7 egress\cf4 \
    \cf6 operator:\cf4  \cf7 Equal\cf4 \
    \cf6 value:\cf4  \cf7 deny\cf4 \
    \cf6 effect:\cf4  \cf7 NoSchedule\cf4 \
\cf6 nodeSelector:\cf4 \
  \cf6 lms.node.class:\cf4  \cf7 secure\cf4 \
\cf6 runtimeClassName:\cf4  \cf7 kata
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 	\'95	GPU node:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 kubectl taint nodes lms-gpu accel=gpu:NoSchedule
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Ray actor that needs GPU:
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf6 nodeSelector:\cf4  \{ \cf6 lms.node.class:\cf4  \cf7 gpu\cf4  \}\
\cf6 tolerations:\cf4 \
  \cf5 -\cf4  \cf6 key:\cf4  \cf7 accel\cf4 \
    \cf6 operator:\cf4  \cf7 Equal\cf4 \
    \cf6 value:\cf4  \cf7 gpu\cf4 \
    \cf6 effect:\cf4  \cf7 NoSchedule
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.5 Runtime isolation tiers
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b default
\f1\b0 : containerd + AppArmor/SELinux + seccomp + eBPF LSM.\
	\'95	
\f2\b gVisor
\f1\b0 : syscall interception for moderate hardening.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Kata/Firecracker
\f1\b0 : microVM boundary for PII/secret workloads.\
	\'95	
\f2\b NetworkPolicy
\f1\b0 : Cilium/Calico enforce isolation & egress allow-lists.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Storage classes
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 encrypted-fast
\f1  (dm-crypt + LVM thin), 
\f4 cold-archive
\f1 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.6 Local MQ + Registry
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b NATS/JetStream
\f1\b0  with per-subject quotas & DLQs.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Schema Registry cache
\f1\b0  in LMS; 
\f2\b JSON-LD context cache
\f1\b0  pinned to 
\f4 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b NATS\uc0\u8596 Kafka bridge
\f1\b0  preserves TritRPC(B2) bytes & Avro/JSON-LD IDs.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) Ray + Poseidon/Firmament integration (local \uc0\u8596  global)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Local
\f1\b0 : Ray inside LMS honors 
\f2\b PlacementIntent
\f1\b0  (node class, runtime, accelerators).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Fog/Regional
\f1\b0 : when the 
\f2\b Observer
\f1\b0  detects SLO pressure or policy (e.g., GPU unavailable), it escalates plan fragments to a 
\f2\b Ray-on-K8s
\f1\b0  cluster scheduled by 
\f2\b Poseidon/Firmament
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Seamless spillover
\f1\b0 : work starts local; spills to fog/regional when constraints require, keeping 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  envelopes unchanged.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 PlacementIntent \uc0\u8594  K8s/Ray mapping (LMS)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf6 placementIntent:\cf4 \
  \cf6 nodeClass:\cf4  \cf7 secure\cf4         \cf9 # -> nodeSelector: lms.node.class=secure\cf4 \
  \cf6 runtime:\cf4  \cf7 kata\cf4             \cf9 # -> runtimeClassName: kata\cf4 \
  \cf6 accel:\cf4  \cf7 gpu\cf4                \cf9 # -> toleration accel=gpu + selector lms.node.class=gpu\cf4 \
  \cf6 privacy:\cf4  \cf7 high\cf4             \cf9 # -> namespace=pii-*, AccessRestrictionPolicy=pii-guard\cf4 \
  \cf6 qos:\cf4  \{ \cf6 p95_ms:\cf4  \cf5 50\cf4 , \cf6 p99_ms:\cf4  \cf5 150\cf4  \}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) TritRPC, Avro, JSON-LD \'97 unchanged but empowered
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Same envelope
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 [MAGIC][VER][MODE][FLAGS][SCHEMA-ID][CONTEXT-ID][PAYLOAD][AEAD?]
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Same canonicalization
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  for hashing/AEAD.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Same payload paths
\f1\b0 : Path-A (Avro Binary) default; Path-B (Avro-T3) optional.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Local enforcement
\f1\b0 : LMS attaches ResourceQuotas/LimitRanges so rogue jobs cannot bypass envelope policy (e.g., PII workloads forced onto 
\f4 lms-secure
\f1  with Kata + egress-deny).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) Minimal UX (so it feels like docker-machine)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf9 # Create & start a local machine space\cf4 \
lms create --name mk-dev --cpus 8 --memory 32g --disk 300g --profile michael-dev\
lms start mk-dev\
\
\cf9 # Toggle secure mode for PII tasks\cf4 \
lms profile apply pii-guard\
kubectl apply -f jobs/pii-dedup.yaml  \cf9 # auto-routed to lms-secure via runtimeClass/taints\cf4 \
\
\cf9 # Add GPU for a session, then release\cf4 \
lms attach-gpu mk-dev --device mps0\
kubectl apply -f jobs/vision-train.yaml\
lms detach-gpu mk-dev --device mps0\
\
\cf9 # Expand disk as your local catalog grows\cf4 \
lms disk expand mk-dev --size 600g
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) Security & governance hooks (local)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b OPA/Gatekeeper
\f1\b0  policies enforce runtime, egress, and label requirements per namespace.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Vault Agent
\f1\b0  issues short-lived creds; CSI driver mounts sealed secrets.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Audit
\f1\b0 : Cilium Hubble/eBPF flow logs; content-addressed WAL for replay; TritRPC AEAD/signatures for tamper-evidence.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) How this fits the agentic promotion model (corrected)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Local (LMS)
\f1\b0  replaces Airflow with 
\f2\b Ray Workflows
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Ingest (NATS) \uc0\u8594  Validate (Avro) \u8594  Stage (AtomSpace Actor) \u8594  Promote (Atom\u8594 RDF* + SHACL) \u8594  Publish (local SPARQL / uplink via TritRPC).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Global/Regional
\f1\b0  may still use Airflow/Argo 
\f3\i only
\f1\i0  for large backfills/curation, dispatching to 
\f2\b Ray-on-K8s
\f1\b0  (Poseidon/Firmament).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) Self-critique & refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Strengths
\f1\b0 : clean isolation boundary; deterministic resource governance; quick, user-driven elasticity; zero change to Avro/JSON-LD/TritRPC; first-class Ray placement; consistent semantics edge\uc0\u8594 core.\

\f2\b Gaps to tighten
\f1\b0  (recommended next):\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Reference lms CLI
\f1\b0 : VM backend adapters (QEMU/AppleVirt/Hyper-V), K3s bootstrap, Kata/gVisor toggles, hot-plug where supported.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Profile compiler
\f1\b0 : translate 
\f4 \cf2 UserResourceProfile
\f1 \cf2  \uc0\u8594  K8s Quotas, LimitRanges, RuntimeClasses, NetworkPolicies, taints/tolerations in one shot.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Secure defaults
\f1\b0 : ship with 
\f4 \cf2 egress=deny
\f1 \cf2  for 
\f4 \cf2 pii-*
\f1 \cf2  namespaces; only explicit allow-lists open.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Telemetry & SLO
\f1\b0 : built-in Observer exporting nodeClass/QoS metrics to OpenTelemetry; automatic spillover rules.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Test vectors
\f1\b0  (unchanged): Path-A/Path-B TritRPC examples; AEAD; SCHEMA-ID/CONTEXT-ID resolution.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
If you want, I can draft:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	the 
\f2\b lms CLI spec
\f1\b0  (commands, flags, lifecycle),\
	\'95	the 
\f2\b CRDs
\f1\b0  (UserResourceProfile, AccessRestrictionPolicy) with Gatekeeper constraints, and\
	\'95	a 
\f2\b starter Ray Workflow
\f1\b0  (Stage\uc0\u8594 Promote\u8594 Publish) that auto-targets 
\f4 lms-secure
\f1  using runtimeClass + taints/tolerations.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 you\'92re right\'97the 
\f2\b host workstation should not run Ray Workflows
\f1\b0 . Ray/Workflows belong 
\f2\b inside the LMS K3s cluster
\f1\b0  (or higher tiers), while the 
\f2\b host OS
\f1\b0  optimizes for minimal overhead, OS-native scheduling, and fast local IO. Below is a corrected, end-to-end layout that integrates a docker-/Lightning-container edge runtime, keeps inference local, and scales up along your ladder: 
\f2\b node \uc0\u8594  local-cluster/mesh \u8594  fog \u8594  cloud \u8594  global mesh
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Corrected Execution Model (by tier)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \uc0\u9484 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9488 \
\uc0\u9474   Global Mesh (multi-region)  \u8594  Cloud Region  \u8594   Fog Cluster  \u8594   LMS  \u9474 \
\uc0\u9474   (policy, catalog, FL coord)     (big jobs)        (mid jobs)     (k3s) \u9474 \
\uc0\u9474                                                               \u8593           \u9474 \
\uc0\u9474                                  Edge devices (Docker/Lightning)         \u9474 \
\uc0\u9474                                                               \u8593           \u9474 \
\uc0\u9474                                 Host Workstation (OS-\cf3 native\cf4  runner)      \uc0\u9474 \
\uc0\u9492 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9496 
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) Host Workstation (Node) \'97 OS-native runner only
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b No Ray/Workflows here.
\f1\b0 \
	\'95	
\f2\b Task runner:
\f1\b0  a light Agent that executes steps via the OS:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	macOS: 
\f4 \cf2 launchd
\f1 \cf2  jobs / POSIX processes\
	\'95	Linux: 
\f4 \cf2 systemd
\f1 \cf2  units / plain processes\
	\'95	Windows: Task Scheduler / services\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b When to run on host:
\f1\b0  micro-tasks, parsing, quick transforms, UI/IDE-adjacent work, metering collectors, and \'93thin\'94 inferences that don\'92t justify container spin-up.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Isolation options (opt-in):
\f1\b0  run in a 
\f2\b Docker
\f1\b0  container (containerd/Moby) or 
\f2\b Lightning
\f1\b0  container if user profile demands sandboxing.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Queue:
\f1\b0  local NATS/JetStream (or simple FIFO) \uc0\u8594  promotes to LMS when thresholds hit.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Policy:
\f1\b0  user profile decides default (host vs container) and what triggers offload.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) Local Machine Space (LMS) \'97 K3s cluster with Ray
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Ray Actors/Workflows live here
\f1\b0 , not on the host.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Schedulers:
\f1\b0  K8s + Poseidon/Firmament; taints/tolerations for 
\f4 secure
\f1 , 
\f4 gpu
\f1 , etc.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Isolation:
\f1\b0  gVisor/Kata/Firecracker as needed; per-namespace NetworkPolicy & quotas.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Use cases:
\f1\b0  multi-step pipelines, SHACL promotion, batch inferences, privacy-scoped jobs, GPU/accel needs, anything that benefits from container orchestration.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Edge & Smart Devices \'97 Docker or Lightning containers
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Default role:
\f1\b0  
\f2\b inference + metering
\f1\b0 , not training.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Packaging:
\f1\b0  OCI images or 
\f2\b Lightning
\f1\b0  containers (PyTorch Lightning/Lightning Fabric based) with a TritRPC sidecar.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Isolation footprint:
\f1\b0  containerd/Moby, optionally Firecracker (e.g., Kata) on capable gateways; on tiny devices, balenaEngine is acceptable.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Networking:
\f1\b0  local NATS or MQTT; uplink via TritRPC(B2) to fog/regional.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) Fog / Regional Clusters \'97 K8s + Ray (Poseidon/Firmament)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Role:
\f1\b0  heavier batch inference, feature generation, small-to-medium training, and 
\f2\b federated training coordination
\f1\b0  when a cohort exists locally.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Data affinity:
\f1\b0  co-locate with Kafka/object store partitions.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) Cloud / Global Mesh
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Role:
\f1\b0  large training, global backfills, catalog curation, cross-tenant SPARQL, FL aggregation across cohorts, compliance audits.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Orchestration:
\f1\b0  Argo/Airflow 
\f2\b only here
\f1\b0  (drives Ray-on-K8s jobs).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Placement & Offload Policy (smallest-sufficient tier)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Ladder:
\f1\b0  host \uc0\u8594  LMS \u8594  edge mesh (if host is gateway) \u8594  fog \u8594  cloud \u8594  global.\
\

\f2\b Decision inputs
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b S
\f1\b0 ize: CPU, RAM, GPU/NPU needed\
	\'95	
\f2\b L
\f1\b0 atency SLO: p95/p99 targets\
	\'95	
\f2\b D
\f1\b0 ata locality: where source/targets sit\
	\'95	
\f2\b P
\f1\b0 rivacy/residency: local/fog/region/global\
	\'95	
\f2\b I
\f1\b0 solation: none/gVisor/Kata\
	\'95	
\f2\b C
\f1\b0 ost/energy budget\
	\'95	
\f2\b A
\f1\b0 vailability: queue depth, backlog, duty cycle\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Heuristic (sketch)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf3 if\cf4  violates(P) or needs(I=Kata) or needs(GPU) or S > host-quota:\
    send \uc0\u8594  LMS\
elif L \cf3 requires\cf4  < 10ms and host has S:\
    run on host (OS-\cf3 native\cf4 )\
elif edge device hosts the sensor and S fits:\
    run on edge (Docker/Lightning)\
\cf3 else\cf4 :\
    escalate \uc0\u8594  fog \u8594  cloud by locality & SLO
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Always choose the 
\f2\b lowest
\f1\b0  tier that satisfies \{S,L,D,P,I,C,A\}. Spill upward if SLO/backpressure fails.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Inference vs Training & Federated Learning
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Edge
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b inference + metering only
\f1\b0 ; cache small feature stores; log predictions/latencies; perform 
\f2\b online calibration
\f1\b0  (e.g., thresholds) but not full SGD.\
	\'95	
\f2\b LMS
\f1\b0 : batch inference, light fine-tuning (LoRA/PEFT), distillation, and 
\f2\b local cohort
\f1\b0  FL if enough nodes are present.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Fog/Cloud
\f1\b0 : heavy training; 
\f2\b FL aggregators
\f1\b0 . Use Flower/Ray AIR/NVFLARE (pick one) with TritRPC for message transport.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Gate for FL start
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 cohort_size \uc0\u8805  N
\f1  AND 
\f4 node_score \uc0\u8805  \u952 
\f1  AND privacy allows; otherwise 
\f2\b defer to fog
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Containerization patterns (Edge & LMS)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 A) Docker (generic OCI)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Image
\f1\b0 : app + model + TritRPC sidecar (Avro+JSON-LD aware).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Ingress
\f1\b0 : TritRPC over TCP/UDS; optional HTTP/gRPC gateway for legacy callers.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Env
\f1\b0 : schema/context IDs provided as env or configmap.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 B) Lightning containers (ML-focused)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b LightningModule
\f1\b0  packaged with model weights; 
\f2\b Lightning runtime
\f1\b0  handles device placement (CPU/MPS/CUDA) inside container.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Control
\f1\b0 : TritRPC \'93serve\'94 method maps to Lightning\'92s predict step.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Metering
\f1\b0 : sidecar emits per-request metrics (latency, confidences) to NATS/Kafka.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Security tiers
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Default: containerd + seccomp + AppArmor.\
	\'95	Hardened: gVisor.\
	\'95	High-trust: Kata/Firecracker microVMs (on LMS/gateway).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Corrected Promotion (local without Airflow)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Host (OS-native):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Ingest
\f1\b0 : read NATS subject \uc0\u8594  Avro validate (SchemaRegistry cache) \u8594  attach provenance \u8594  write local WAL\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Stage
\f1\b0 : local AtomSpace process (not container if policy permits)\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Promote
\f1\b0 : if small \uc0\u8594  run mapping + SHACL as 
\f2\b host processes
\f1\b0 ; if policy/size/privacy demands \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b submit to LMS Ray Workflow
\f1\b0 \

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Publish
\f1\b0 : local SPARQL (embedded store) or uplink via TritRPC(B2) to fog\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 LMS (K3s with Ray):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Same 4 steps, but as 
\f2\b Ray Workflows
\f1\b0  placed by Poseidon/Firmament with taints/tolerations (
\f4 secure
\f1 , 
\f4 gpu
\f1 , etc.)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 TritRPC / Avro / JSON-LD \'97 unchanged core
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Envelope
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 [MAGIC][VER][MODE][FLAGS][SCHEMA-ID][CONTEXT-ID][PAYLOAD][AEAD?]
\f1 \
	\'95	
\f2\b Canonical bytes
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  (sign once, route anywhere)\
	\'95	
\f2\b Payload
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b Path-A
\f1\b0  (Avro Binary) default; 
\f2\b Path-B
\f1\b0  (Avro-T3) optional/experimental\
	\'95	
\f2\b Every tier
\f1\b0  speaks the same contract; local and edge never drift from fog/cloud semantics.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Dev & Ops UX
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Host (developer ergonomics)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf9 # run locally (OS-native), auto-offload if policy triggers\cf4 \
agent run --task stage_promote --policy default\
\
\cf9 # explicitly offload to LMS\cf4 \
agent offload --to lms --dag stage_promote\
\
\cf9 # package & push edge container (Docker or Lightning)\cf4 \
agent pack --target edge --lightning ./serving --tag mymodel:0.3\
agent deploy --device edge-12 --image mymodel:0.3
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 LMS control
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 lms create --cpus 8 --memory 32g --disk 300g --profile dev\
lms taint add lms-secure isolation=kata:NoSchedule\
lms apply-profile michael-dev
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Self-critique & refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Strengths now
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Clear separation: 
\f2\b host = OS-native runner
\f1\b0 , 
\f2\b LMS/above = Ray/K8s
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	Edge containers (Docker/Lightning) cover smart devices; inference + metering by default, with clean offload rules.\
	\'95	Placement policy is explicit; smallest-sufficient tier first; semantics/security remain invariant (Avro+JSON-LD in TritRPC).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 What to tighten next
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Policy compiler
\f1\b0 : translate placement constraints (S,L,D,P,I,C,A) into host/LMS/fog actions automatically.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Edge reference images
\f1\b0 : one 
\f2\b Docker
\f1\b0  and one 
\f2\b Lightning
\f1\b0  template with TritRPC sidecar + Avro/JSON-LD bootstrap.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Offload thresholds
\f1\b0 : ship sane defaults (e.g., 
\f4 \cf2 cpu>75% 5s
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 p95>2\'d7SLO
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 mem>80%
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 GPU req=true
\f1 \cf2 ) with hysteresis to avoid flapping.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Federated learning guardrails
\f1\b0 : cohort formation, privacy/residency proofs, secure aggregation, and TritRPC message schemas.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Test vectors & SerDes
\f1\b0 : finalize Path-A/Path-B examples, AEAD vectors, and publish Rust/Python libs.\
\
If you want, I\'92ll produce the 
\f2\b policy compiler matrix
\f1\b0  (inputs\uc0\u8594 actions), the 
\f2\b edge Docker/Lightning templates
\f1\b0  with a TritRPC sidecar, and the 
\f2\b offload thresholds
\f1\b0  as a default policy you can tune per profile.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Absolutely\'97let\'92s enrich the 
\f2\b governed Airflow path
\f1\b0  with a complementary, 
\f2\b volunteer/federated compute mesh
\f1\b0  for sparse, local-first topologies. Think 
\f2\b BOINC/Folding@home/SETI@home
\f1\b0  vibes but modernized: Avro/JSON-LD contracts, TritRPC envelopes, container/WASM isolation, proof/verification, and optional on-ledger settlement (RLC-style) \'97 all slotted into your node\uc0\u8594 local-mesh\u8594 fog\u8594 cloud\u8594 global ladder.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Dual-Orchestration Model
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 A) Canonical, governed ETL (Airflow)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Purpose:
\f1\b0  Authoritative 
\f3\i source\uc0\u8594 target
\f1\i0  pipelines (data lineage, SLAs, data contracts).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Traits:
\f1\b0  Change-controlled DAGs; catalog-integrated (CK/Open Data Catalog); reproducible; audit-ready.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Transport:
\f1\b0  Kafka (Avro + JSON-LD) using 
\f2\b TritRPC(B2)
\f1\b0  as the envelope.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 B) Federated Compute Mesh (volunteer/agentic)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Purpose:
\f1\b0  Opportunistic capacity for users with 
\f2\b small, federated trust networks
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b sparse compute/storage/IO
\f1\b0 , where centralized cluster paths are overkill or unavailable.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Traits:
\f1\b0  Opt-in nodes, intermittent connectivity, heterogeneous devices, pluggable verification, credits/settlement (RLC-style) optional.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Transport:
\f1\b0  Same 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  envelopes; same Avro schema + JSON-LD semantics; overlay network (QUIC/libp2p or NATS federation).\
\
These two planes interoperate: 
\f2\b Airflow DAGs can publish work to the mesh
\f1\b0  and later 
\f2\b collect/reduce
\f1\b0  results with governed checks.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Mesh Architecture (focused for sparse topologies)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4                (Governed plane)                         (Mesh plane)\
           \uc0\u9484 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9488                \u9484 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9488 \
           \uc0\u9474   Airflow DAG (core)  \u9474                \u9474   Mesh Coordinator    \u9474 \
           \uc0\u9474   \'95 Source\u8594 Target     \u9474                \u9474   \'95 WU registry       \u9474 \
           \uc0\u9474   \'95 Catalog + policy  \u9474                \u9474   \'95 Scheduler         \u9474 \
           \uc0\u9492 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9516 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9496                \u9474   \'95 Verifier/Reducer  \u9474 \
                     \uc0\u9474  TritRPC(B2)                \u9492 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9516 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9496 \
                     \uc0\u9660                                            \u9650 \
             \uc0\u9484 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9488                                   \u9474 \
             \uc0\u9474  MeshOperator  \u9474  publish/collect                  \u9474  gossip/submit\
             \uc0\u9492 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9516 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9496                                   \u9474 \
                    \uc0\u9474                          \u9484 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9524 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9488 \
                    \uc0\u9660                          \u9474         Federated Trust Network       \u9474 \
        \uc0\u9484 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9488              \u9474  (Edge/Peers: Docker/Lightning/WASM) \u9474 \
        \uc0\u9474   Work Unit (WU) pack  \u9474 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9654 \u9474    \'95 Workers (containers/WASM)       \u9474 \
        \uc0\u9474   \'95 Avro datum(s)      \u9474  TritRPC     \u9474    \'95 Verifiers (redundant/zk/TEE)    \u9474 \
        \uc0\u9474   \'95 JSON-LD context    \u9474              \u9474    \'95 Storage shims (IPFS/HTTP/S3)    \u9474 \
        \uc0\u9474   \'95 Policy & SLO       \u9474              \u9492 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9496 \
        \uc0\u9492 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9496 
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Roles
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Coordinator (may run on your host or within LMS):
\f1\b0 \
WU registry, scheduling, result collection, verification, reduction, settlement. Can be a small service the Airflow 
\f2\b MeshOperator
\f1\b0  talks to.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Workers (edge/peers):
\f1\b0 \
Run 
\f2\b Docker
\f1\b0 /
\f2\b Lightning
\f1\b0  containers or 
\f2\b WASM
\f1\b0  sandboxes; pull WUs, compute, return results + proofs/receipts.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Verifiers:
\f1\b0 \
Redundant re-executors or cryptographic verifiers (zk/TEE/spot-check); provide attestations, thresholds, or SNARK/STARK proofs (optional).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Storage shims:
\f1\b0 \
Content-addressed blobs via IPFS/S3/HTTP; small inputs inline in WU; large binaries fetched by hash.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Work Units (WU) \'96 Spec Sketch
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 WU header (TritRPC envelope):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 SCHEMA-ID
\f1 : SHA3(Avro canonical form)\
	\'95	
\f4 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 : SHA3(JSON-LD @context)\
	\'95	
\f4 POLICY
\f1 : privacy/residency, isolation requirements, SLOs\
	\'95	
\f4 PROOF_MODE
\f1 : 
\f4 redundant | spot_check | tee | zk
\f1 \
	\'95	
\f4 SANDBOX
\f1 : 
\f4 docker | lightning | wasm | kata
\f1  (+ resource hints)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 WU body (Avro):
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "work_unit_id"\cf4 : \cf7 "urn:wu:\'85"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "task"\cf4 : \cf7 "image.infer@v3"\cf4 ,                    \cf9 // logical task name\cf4 \
  \cf6 "inputs"\cf4 : [\{ \cf6 "uri"\cf4 :\cf7 "ipfs://\'85"\cf4 , \cf6 "sha256"\cf4 :\cf7 "\'85"\cf4  \}], \cf9 // or inline bytes\cf4 \
  \cf6 "params"\cf4 : \{ \cf6 "top_k"\cf4 : \cf5 3\cf4 , \cf6 "threshold"\cf4 : \cf5 0.65\cf4  \},\
  \cf6 "constraints"\cf4 : \{\
    \cf6 "max_wall_ms"\cf4 : \cf5 60000\cf4 ,\
    \cf6 "min_mem_mb"\cf4 : \cf5 1024\cf4 ,\
    \cf6 "accel"\cf4 : [\cf7 "mps"\cf4 ,\cf7 "cuda"\cf4 ,\cf7 "neon"\cf4 ]\
  \},\
  \cf6 "return"\cf4 : \{ \cf6 "schema_id"\cf4 :\cf7 "sha3:\'85"\cf4 , \cf6 "context_id"\cf4 :\cf7 "sha3:\'85"\cf4  \}\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 Results are returned as TritRPC frames with the declared 
\f4 \cf2 return
\f1 \cf2  Avro schema (plus 
\f2\b verifier receipts
\f1\b0 ).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Isolation & Runtime Choices (edge-friendly)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Docker/OCI
\f1\b0 : general workloads; seccomp+AppArmor.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Lightning containers
\f1\b0 : ML inference; ergonomic device placement (CPU/MPS/CUDA).\
	\'95	
\f2\b WASM (wasmtime/wasm3)
\f1\b0 : portable, fast cold-start, deterministic by design (great for replicated verification).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Kata/Firecracker
\f1\b0 : microVM boundary for PII/regulated tasks on capable nodes.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Selection rule
\f1\b0  (inside WU policy): prefer 
\f2\b WASM
\f1\b0  for deterministic, CPU-only subtasks; 
\f2\b Lightning
\f1\b0  for ML inference; 
\f2\b Kata
\f1\b0  when isolation or PII flags demand.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Scheduling in Sparse Meshes
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Opportunistic & delay-tolerant
\f1\b0 : store-and-forward; tasks carry TTL & priority; nodes can go offline and return.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Placement hints
\f1\b0 : data affinity, approximate geoloc/latency classes, privacy residency (local/fog/region).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Smallest-sufficient tier
\f1\b0  first:\
host \uc0\u8594  local mesh \u8594  fog \u8594  cloud \u8594  global; escalate on SLO failure/backpressure.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Verification & Trust
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Choose per-WU 
\f2\b PROOF_MODE
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Redundant quorum
\f1\b0  (deterministic tasks): N\uc0\u8805 3 replicas; 
\f2\b majority hash
\f1\b0  match \uc0\u8594  accept; tie-break with an extra run.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Spot-check
\f1\b0  (stochastic tasks): embed 
\f3\i \cf2 canary
\f1\i0 \cf2  sub-tasks with known outputs; score worker accuracy; weight results.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b TEE attestation
\f1\b0 : require SEV-SNP/TDX/SGX attestation quotes in receipts; Coordinator validates before rewarding.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b ZK proofs
\f1\b0  (advanced): worker returns 
\f4 \cf2 result + proof
\f1 \cf2 ; Coordinator verifies succinctly.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Optimistic + fraud proofs
\f1\b0 : accept result, allow a challenge window; challengers must submit counter-evidence; slashing applies on successful challenges.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Receipts (Avro)
\f1\b0  include: WU id, worker DID, runtime+version, input digests, output digests, timing, energy (optional), 
\f2\b attestation/proof
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Credits, Settlement, and Reputation (RLC-style option)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Accounting:
\f1\b0  simple 
\f2\b credits
\f1\b0  by default (time \'d7 resources \'d7 QoS).\
	\'95	
\f2\b On-ledger mode:
\f1\b0  stake/bond, slashing, and settlements via a permissioned ledger (or append-only Merkle log with witnesses) to keep ops simple.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Reputation:
\f1\b0  moving average of successful verified WUs; decay over time; affects task allocation & payouts.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Privacy:
\f1\b0  do not leak dataset identity; account in aggregate unless proofs require per-WD detail.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Data Movement
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Small inputs
\f1\b0 : inline Avro bytes within the WU.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Large inputs
\f1\b0 : content addressed (IPFS/S3/HTTP) by 
\f2\b digest
\f1\b0 ; side-channel bulk transfer allowed; 
\f2\b digests
\f1\b0  always checked before execution.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Outputs
\f1\b0 : inline if small; else content-addressed artifacts with digests; results Avro references these URIs.\
	\'95	
\f2\b All WU and result messages
\f1\b0  travel as 
\f2\b TritRPC(B2)
\f1\b0  (Kafka/NATS/libp2p) or 
\f2\b B3/Q3
\f1\b0  when available; 
\f3\i same envelope, same semantics
\f1\i0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Airflow \uc0\u8596  Mesh Integration
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 MeshOperator (Airflow)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b publish_wus(task_id, batch)
\f1\b0  \uc0\u8594  chunks payloads; assigns PROOF_MODE; signs and emits TritRPC WUs.\
	\'95	
\f2\b collect(task_id)
\f1\b0  \uc0\u8594  gathers results, verifies per PROOF_MODE, reduces, emits canonical 
\f2\b Target Avro
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b lineage hooks
\f1\b0  \uc0\u8594  write WU DAG edges and verification receipts to the Catalog (CK).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 DAG pattern
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 Extract \uc0\u8594  Normalize \u8594  (MeshOperator: Distribute) \u8594  (Mesh Reduce) \u8594  Validate \u8594  Load
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 	\'95	Use 
\f2\b governed
\f1\b0  DAG only to define contracts and reductions; mesh handles elastic compute.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 What\'92s good to run on the Mesh?
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Embarrassingly parallel
\f1\b0 : image/audio transcoding; feature extraction; map-style preprocess; parameter sweeps.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Inference at the edge
\f1\b0 : small/medium models (Lightning containers).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Analytics kernels
\f1\b0 : sketching (HyperLogLog, Count-Min), Bloom filters, hashing, sampling.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Simulation shards
\f1\b0 : Monte Carlo, rendering tiles, search branches.\
\
Avoid (or require strong proofs/TEEs for): PII-heavy, low-entropy aggregation, or tasks needing sensitive keys.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Privacy & Compliance
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Policy in WU
\f1\b0 : residency (local/fog/region), isolation (Kata/TEE), no-egress flags.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Tokenized secrets
\f1\b0 : pull once from a short-lived vault token; never write secrets to result.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Field-level AEAD
\f1\b0 : seal sensitive fields in payloads/results; Coordinator can route sealed fragments only to attested nodes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Differential privacy
\f1\b0  (optional): for aggregate statistics; applied at Reduce.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Minimal APIs (sketch)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 WU Publish (Coordinator)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 POST /api/v1/wu\
Body: TritRPC payload (Avro WU)\
Resp: \{ accepted: n, ids: [...] \}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 WU Poll (Worker)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 GET /api/v1/wu?cap=gpu&runtime=lightning&residency=local\
Resp: [WU...]
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Result Submit (Worker)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 POST /api/v1/result\
Body: TritRPC payload (Avro result + receipt)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Settlement (optional)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 POST /api/v1/settle \{ wu_id, receipts[], proof_bundle \}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Governance & Catalog (CK)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Dataset/model 
\f2\b cards
\f1\b0  list whether mesh use is allowed, required proof modes, privacy class, allowable residencies.\
	\'95	Airflow enforces catalog rules at 
\f2\b MeshOperator
\f1\b0  boundary.\
	\'95	All WU/result/receipt digests + provenance recorded for audit/repro.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Self-critique & refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Strengths
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Keeps 
\f2\b Airflow
\f1\b0  as the governed source\uc0\u8594 target authority while enabling 
\f2\b elastic, agentic
\f1\b0  compute for sparse topologies.\
	\'95	Uses 
\f2\b the same Avro+JSON-LD contracts
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b TritRPC envelope
\f1\b0 , so semantics never drift.\
	\'95	Offers 
\f2\b graduated trust
\f1\b0 : redundant hashes \uc0\u8594  spot-checks \u8594  TEEs \u8594  ZK.\
	\'95	Runs everywhere: 
\f2\b Docker/Lightning
\f1\b0  containers, 
\f2\b WASM
\f1\b0  for determinism, 
\f2\b Kata
\f1\b0 /microVM for strong isolation.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Gaps to tighten next
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Reference WU schemas & result/receipt Avro
\f1\b0  (test vectors with AEAD).\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Coordinator reference
\f1\b0  (NATS/libp2p overlay with QUIC, retry/TTL, backpressure).\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Proof adapters
\f1\b0 : SGX/SEV attestation validator; pluggable zk-verifier interface.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Airflow MeshOperator
\f1\b0  sample implementation (publish/collect/reduce).\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Default policies
\f1\b0 : what\'92s allowed on mesh, default PROOF_MODE per task class, and residency matrix.\

\f5 	6.	
\f2\b Edge images
\f1\b0 : Docker + Lightning base images with TritRPC sidecar & Avro/JSON-LD bootstrap.\

\f5 	7.	
\f2\b Reputation/settlement
\f1\b0 : start with credits; add optional staking & slashing later.\
\
Want me to draft (a) the 
\f2\b WU/Result/Receipt Avro
\f1\b0  schemas with TritRPC envelopes, (b) a 
\f2\b MeshOperator
\f1\b0  for Airflow (pseudo-code), and (c) a 
\f2\b WASM worker
\f1\b0  reference that runs the same WU deterministically on ARM/x86?\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Got it. Here\'92s a 
\f2\b tight, agent-first augmentation
\f1\b0  that snaps into everything we\'92ve built (Avro + JSON-LD + TritRPC, LMS K3s with Ray, Airflow for governed ETL, and the volunteer/federated mesh). It makes each node an 
\f2\b AI system in its own right
\f1\b0 : OpenCog-backed symbolic core, an on-node LLM/SMLL (small model) service, and a 
\f2\b portfolio of OS-native agents
\f1\b0  (user, knowledge, network/connections, terminal/shell, etc.)\'97all contract-driven and policy-governed.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \

\f0\b\fs44 Agent-First Node Architecture (OS-native)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 0) Design principles
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b OS-first runner:
\f1\b0  no Ray on the host; host runs agents as 
\f2\b OS-native services
\f1\b0  (launchd/systemd/Windows Service) for minimal overhead and best I/O.\
	\'95	
\f2\b OpenCog + LLM co-reasoning:
\f1\b0  AtomSpace is the symbolic substrate; LLM/SMLL serves tool-use, summarization, schema synthesis. Both are first-class and auditable.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Contracts everywhere:
\f1\b0  Avro schema + JSON-LD 
\f4 @context
\f1 , wrapped in 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  (B2/B3/Q3). Agents talk by 
\f2\b contracts
\f1\b0 , not ad-hoc JSON.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Local sovereignty:
\f1\b0  user and system graphs live locally; promotion is explicit. Default is private pods + capability tokens.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Smallest-sufficient tier:
\f1\b0  host \uc0\u8594  LMS k3s \u8594  edge mesh \u8594  fog \u8594  cloud \u8594  global.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) On-Node Components (host workstation)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 1.1 Agent Kernel (supervisor)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Runs as 
\f4 agentd
\f1  (launchd/systemd). Subsystems:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Planner
\f1\b0  (lightweight): decides 
\f3\i where
\f1\i0  to execute (host vs LMS vs mesh) per policy.\
	\'95	
\f2\b ToolBus:
\f1\b0  routes 
\f2\b AgentMessages
\f1\b0  (Avro/TritRPC) between agents/tools.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Guardrails:
\f1\b0  capability enforcement, PII gates, egress policies.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Memory Fabric:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx900\tx1060\li1060\fi-1060\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b User Graph
\f1\b0  (private): preferences, projects, personal entities (AtomSpace workspace + vector store).\
	\'95	
\f2\b System Graph
\f1\b0 : processes, sockets, mounts, services, packages, health (AtomSpace workspace).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Vector Index
\f1\b0 : FAISS/Milvus-lite; RAG over user/system docs.\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Secret & Consent
\f1\b0 : Vault Agent/OS keychain + consent ledger (append-only).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 1.2 Built-in agents (host level)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b User Agent
\f1\b0 : profile inference, intent router, preference policy compiler.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Knowledge Agent
\f1\b0 : RAG over User/System graphs; RDF*/AtomSpace promotion locally.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Network/Connections Agent
\f1\b0 : interfaces with OS net APIs (pcap/nettop/lsof), builds a connections subgraph, alerts on anomalies.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Terminal/Shell Agent
\f1\b0 : secure shell tool with least-privilege; emits command intents + effects to the System Graph.\
	\'95	
\f2\b LLM Service
\f1\b0 : on-node LLM/SMLL server:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Tiered: 
\f2\b SMLL
\f1\b0  (e.g., 1\'963B) always available; larger models only in LMS or fog.\
	\'95	Tool-use via 
\f2\b AgentMessages
\f1\b0  (not HTTP plugins); prompt templates live in the User Graph and are versioned.\
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 All agents 
\f2\b speak Avro
\f1\b0  over 
\f2\b TritRPC(B2)
\f1\b0  locally (UDS/TCP). JSON-LD contexts guarantee semantic stability.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) Local Machine Space (LMS) k3s cluster (microVM isolation)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	When the host needs isolation/scale/GPU/PII handling, 
\f2\b Planner
\f1\b0  offloads to LMS:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Ray Actors/Workflows live here
\f1\b0  (SHACL promotion, batch inference, secure jobs).\
	\'95	Node classes: 
\f4 \cf2 lms-work
\f1 \cf2 , 
\f4 \cf2 lms-secure
\f1 \cf2  (Kata), 
\f4 \cf2 lms-gpu
\f1 \cf2 .\
	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 lms
\f1 \cf2  CLI (docker-machine vibes): create/start/resize, taints/tolerations, attach GPU, apply 
\f2\b UserResourceProfile
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b AccessRestrictionPolicy
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Edge and Mesh (Docker/Lightning/WASM)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Edge containers
\f1\b0  (Docker or Lightning): inference + metering; TritRPC sidecar; WASM for deterministic kernels.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Volunteer mesh
\f1\b0  (BOINC-style): Work Units (WU) published from Airflow (governed) or from the 
\f2\b MeshCoordinator
\f1\b0 ; verification via quorum/spot/TEE/ZK; results reduced and promoted by governed DAGs.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) Data planes & contracts
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 4.1 Core Avro schemas (sketches)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 AgentEnvelope
\f1\b0  (wrap all node-local exchanges)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "AgentEnvelope"\cf4 ,\cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "agent.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "id"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "ts"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "long"\cf4 ,\cf6 "logicalType"\cf4 :\cf7 "timestamp-micros"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "sender"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "receiver"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "kind"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "enum"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "AgentKind"\cf4 ,\
      \cf6 "symbols"\cf4 :[\cf7 "OBSERVATION"\cf4 ,\cf7 "INTENT"\cf4 ,\cf7 "ACTION"\cf4 ,\cf7 "RESULT"\cf4 ,\cf7 "ERROR"\cf4 ]\}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "schema_id"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},      \cf9 // Avro shape pin\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "context_id"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},    \cf9 // JSON-LD pin\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "payload"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "bytes"\cf4 \}         \cf9 // datum of the declared schema_id\cf4 \
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Observation
\f1\b0  (from Network/Terminal/System)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "Observation"\cf4 ,\cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "agent.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "source"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "type"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},          \cf9 // e.g., "net.conn","proc.spawn"\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "attrs"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "map"\cf4 ,\cf6 "values"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "severity"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "enum"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "Severity"\cf4 ,\cf6 "symbols"\cf4 :[\cf7 "INFO"\cf4 ,\cf7 "WARN"\cf4 ,\cf7 "CRIT"\cf4 ]\}\}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Action
\f1\b0  (what Terminal/Network agent may execute)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "Action"\cf4 ,\cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "agent.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "capability"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},    \cf9 // e.g., "shell.exec","net.block"\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "args"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "map"\cf4 ,\cf6 "values"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "policy"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "map"\cf4 ,\cf6 "values"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\} \cf9 // e.g., timeout, cwd\cf4 \
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 KnowledgeUpdate
\f1\b0  (User/System graph deltas)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "KnowledgeUpdate"\cf4 ,\cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "agent.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "graph"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "enum"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "Graph"\cf4 ,\cf6 "symbols"\cf4 :[\cf7 "USER"\cf4 ,\cf7 "SYSTEM"\cf4 ]\}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "patch"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "bytes"\cf4 \},          \cf9 // RDF*/AtomSpace delta (binary or Turtle*)\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "prov"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "map"\cf4 ,\cf6 "values"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 LLMRequest / LLMResponse
\f1\b0  (tool-use, structured)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "LLMRequest"\cf4 ,\cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "agent.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "model"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "prompt"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "tools"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\}, \cf9 // declared capabilities\cf4 \
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "retrieval"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "map"\cf4 ,\cf6 "values"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "LLMResponse"\cf4 ,\cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "agent.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "text"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :[\cf7 "null"\cf4 ,\cf7 "string"\cf4 ],\cf6 "default"\cf4 :\cf3 null\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "tool_calls"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\
      \{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "ToolCall"\cf4 ,\cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "capability"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "args"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "map"\cf4 ,\cf6 "values"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\}\
      ]\}\}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "confidence"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :[\cf7 "null"\cf4 ,\cf7 "float"\cf4 ],\cf6 "default"\cf4 :\cf3 null\cf4 \}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 All carried in 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  with 
\f4 \cf2 SCHEMA-ID
\f1 \cf2  + 
\f4 \cf2 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 \cf2 . 
\f2\b Path-A
\f1\b0  (Avro Binary) by default; 
\f2\b Path-B
\f1\b0  ternary-native optional.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 4.2 JSON-LD contexts
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 agent.jsonld
\f1  defines terms: 
\f4 Observation
\f1 , 
\f4 Action
\f1 , 
\f4 Graph
\f1 , 
\f4 Capability
\f1 , 
\f4 Provenance
\f1 \'97so graph deltas are semantically portable and promotion to RDF*/OWL is deterministic.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) Execution & placement logic (host-first)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Inputs:
\f1\b0  size (S), latency SLO (L), data locality (D), privacy/residency (P), isolation (I), cost/energy (C), availability (A).\
\

\f2\b Decision:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Host (OS-native) if 
\f4 S
\f1  small, 
\f4 L
\f1  tight, 
\f4 I
\f1  none/low, and policy allows.\
	\'95	LMS if needs Kata/GPU/PII or 
\f4 S
\f1  beyond host quota or 
\f4 L
\f1  not met on host.\
	\'95	Edge container if sensor-adjacent; WASM for deterministic kernels.\
	\'95	Mesh/fog/cloud escalations per SLO and backlog with same contracts.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) Agent behaviors (concrete)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.1 Network/Connections Agent
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Observe:
\f1\b0  sockets, DNS, QUIC, TLS, process ownership; emit 
\f2\b Observation
\f1\b0  events.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Detect:
\f1\b0  policy-bound patterns (beaconing, exfil windows); tag 
\f2\b SYSTEM graph
\f1\b0  with risk edges.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Act:
\f1\b0  propose 
\f2\b Action
\f1\b0  (\'93block domain\'94, \'93throttle process\'94) to 
\f2\b Governor
\f1\b0  for approval.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.2 Terminal/Shell Agent
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Guarded exec:
\f1\b0  only approved capabilities/args; TTY/PTY with redactors; emit Observation + Result.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Replayability:
\f1\b0  store command + normalized outputs (hashes) to 
\f2\b User graph
\f1\b0  under project nodes.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.3 Knowledge Agent
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b RAG
\f1\b0 : merges vector candidates (User/System docs) with AtomSpace queries; builds 
\f2\b Working Set
\f1\b0  before LLM call.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Promotion:
\f1\b0  local Atom\uc0\u8594 RDF* mapping + 
\f2\b SHACL
\f1\b0 ; stay local by default; explicit uplink via TritRPC.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 6.4 LLM Service
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b SMLL on host
\f1\b0 : quantized small models; 
\f2\b bigger only in LMS/fog
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Tool-use
\f1\b0 : constrained to declared Avro capabilities; tool results update graphs; traces are persisted (reproducible).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) Airflow (governed ETL) \uc0\u8596  Agent Mesh (elastic)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Canonical 
\f2\b source\uc0\u8594 target
\f1\b0  DAGs live in Airflow; a 
\f2\b MeshOperator
\f1\b0  can 
\f2\b publish WUs
\f1\b0  to the federated mesh for elastic compute, with receipts/reductions back into governed loads.\
	\'95	Agents consume/produce the same 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  frames, so crossings are seamless.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) Security & policy
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Capabilities
\f1\b0 : every Action checks capability tokens (who, what, where, TTL, scope).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Egress
\f1\b0 : Cilium/Calico NetworkPolicy (host/LMS); local deny-by-default for PII namespaces.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Secrets
\f1\b0 : short-lived; never serialized in clear; fields sealed with AEAD in 
\f2\b AgentEnvelope
\f1\b0  payloads as needed.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Audit
\f1\b0 : AgentEnvelope streams are content-addressed; signed canonical bytes (TritPack243) yield tamper-evident logs.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) Developer & user UX
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Host
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf9 # start agent kernel\cf4 \
sudo agentd start\
\
\cf9 # send an intent to shell agent, OS-native\cf4 \
agentctl send --to shell --schema Action --file ./ls_home.avro\
\
\cf9 # offload a promotion job to LMS\cf4 \
agentctl offload --to lms --workflow promote_local_graph\
\
\cf9 # ask the LLM with tools restricted to knowledge+shell\cf4 \
agentctl ask \cf7 "summarize recent auth failures and suggest fixes"\cf4  --tools knowledge,shell
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 LMS
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 lms create --name mk-dev --cpus 8 --memory 32g --disk 300g --profile michael-dev\
lms apply-profile pii-guard
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 Edge
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 agentctl pack --target edge --lightning ./models/edge_infer --tag myedge:0.1\
agentctl deploy --device edge-12 --image myedge:0.1
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 10) Example end-to-end flows
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b User asks:
\f1\b0  \'93Why is my CPU spiking when Chrome is idle?\'94\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Network Agent emits 
\f2\b Observation
\f1\b0  spikes; System Graph links PID\uc0\u8596 sockets; Knowledge Agent composes a Working Set; LLM explains + proposes Actions (throttle, block domain). Governor approves; Terminal Agent executes throttling. Promotion stays local unless user opts to publish.\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	2.	
\f2\b Local doc RAG:
\f1\b0  User Agent ingests notes; Knowledge Agent updates 
\f2\b User Graph
\f1\b0 ; LLM drafts a plan; Terminal Agent scaffolds files; everything runs host-native. If model too big \uc0\u8594  offload to LMS automatically.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Volunteer job:
\f1\b0  Airflow DAG publishes WUs for feature extraction; peers run Docker/WASM; receipts come back; governed DAG reduces + loads to target store. Same schemas; TritRPC everywhere.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 11) What to ship next (concrete, code-ready)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Avro schemas
\f1\b0  (finalize): 
\f4 AgentEnvelope
\f1 , 
\f4 Observation
\f1 , 
\f4 Action
\f1 , 
\f4 KnowledgeUpdate
\f1 , 
\f4 LLMRequest/Response
\f1 , 
\f4 Receipt
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b JSON-LD contexts
\f1\b0  for agents/graphs/capabilities (stable IRIs).\
	\'95	
\f2\b TritRPC SerDes
\f1\b0  (Rust/Python): TritPack243, AEAD, envelope helpers.\
	\'95	
\f2\b agentd
\f1\b0  + 
\f2\b agentctl
\f1\b0 : host runner & CLI; UDS transport; policy compiler.\
	\'95	
\f2\b LLM service
\f1\b0 : SMLL on host, LMS profile for larger models; tool-use via AgentMessages.\
	\'95	
\f2\b LMS CRDs
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 UserResourceProfile
\f1 , 
\f4 AccessRestrictionPolicy
\f1 ; Kata/gVisor presets.\
	\'95	
\f2\b MeshCoordinator
\f1\b0 : minimal NATS/libp2p, quorum verifier, Airflow 
\f2\b MeshOperator
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Test vectors
\f1\b0 : end-to-end\'97host action, LMS offload, mesh round-trip, AEAD integrity.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 12) Self-critique & refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Strengths
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Clean separation of concerns: host = OS-native agent system; LMS/fog/cloud = orchestration and heavy lifting.\
	\'95	Every exchange is 
\f2\b contractual
\f1\b0  (Avro+JSON-LD) and 
\f2\b transport-invariant
\f1\b0  (TritRPC).\
	\'95	Co-reasoning is explicit and auditable (AtomSpace \uc0\u8596  LLM); tool calls are first-class Avro actions.\
	\'95	Scales horizontally with volunteer mesh without abandoning governance.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Gaps / refine
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Formalize tool capability taxonomy
\f1\b0  (cap names, arg schemas, side-effects); ship a registry.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Consistent tracing
\f1\b0 : W3C Trace Context for AgentEnvelope to correlate LLM/tool/graph hops.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Determinism modes
\f1\b0 : WASM-first for verifiable steps; annotate LLM non-determinism and cache/seed.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Prompt governance
\f1\b0 : store prompts/templates in 
\f2\b User Graph
\f1\b0  with versions, hashes, and opt-in redaction rules.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Auto-placement tuning
\f1\b0 : learn thresholds from SLO deltas and energy telemetry (Observer feeds a bandit to improve host vs LMS decisions).\

\f5 	6.	
\f2\b Accessibility & recovery
\f1\b0 : safe-mode (no external egress), \'93explain my last action\'94 endpoints, and one-shot rollback for graph mutations.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
If you want, I\'92ll deliver 
\f2\b (1) the finalized Avro schemas + JSON-LD contexts
\f1\b0 , 
\f2\b (2) agentd/agentctl spec with OS service units
\f1\b0 , and 
\f2\b (3) a minimal SMLL service with tool-use
\f1\b0  that can run on your workstation today and offload to LMS transparently when policies trigger.\
\
Absolutely\'97let\'92s harden the UX stack with a 
\f2\b Local Digital\uc0\u8209 Twin UI
\f1\b0  (LDT\uc0\u8209 UI) that 
\f2\b never executes remote website code
\f1\b0  and instead renders 
\f2\b locally verified scripts, styles, and components
\f1\b0  under your policies. We\'92ll also add a 
\f2\b K3s\uc0\u8209 in\u8209 cloud twin
\f1\b0  that mirrors the local K3s (LMS) cluster to act as the user\'92s 
\f2\b execution bastion & trusted C2
\f1\b0  for the personal mesh.\
\
Below is a complete design that slots into our agent\uc0\u8209 first, Avro+JSON\u8209 LD+TritRPC architecture and the node\u8594 local\u8209 mesh\u8594 fog\u8594 cloud\u8594 global ladder.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 0) Objectives & threat model
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Your objectives
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b No remote JS execution.
\f1\b0  All interaction logic comes from 
\f2\b locally verified
\f1\b0  scripts/libraries.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Policy\uc0\u8209 controlled CSS.
\f1\b0  User chooses the stylesheet/skin; 
\f2\b no Shadow DOM spoofing
\f1\b0  or injected styles.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Reusable, offline libraries.
\f1\b0  Eliminate repeated I/O for jQuery/React/etc.; 
\f2\b cache once, verify forever
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Deterministic, auditable UI.
\f1\b0  Same Avro+JSON\uc0\u8209 LD semantics and TritRPC envelope; signatures survive transport.\
	\'95	
\f2\b K3s twin in cloud.
\f1\b0  Mirrors LMS; serves as 
\f2\b execution bastion & C2
\f1\b0  for user and federated mesh.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Key threats
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Minified/obfuscated third\uc0\u8209 party bundles; supply\u8209 chain injection; drive\u8209 by JS; Shadow DOM masking; CSS\u8209 based UI deception; tampering between source and render.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) Local Digital\uc0\u8209 Twin UI (LDT\u8209 UI): high\u8209 level
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Replace the browser\'92s remote execution
\f1\b0  with a 
\f2\b local rendering runtime
\f1\b0  that:\
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Fetches only data
\f1\b0  (HTML/JSON/GraphQL) through a policy gateway/proxy.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Maps remote content \uc0\u8594  local UI components
\f1\b0  via a 
\f2\b signed UI Manifest
\f1\b0 .\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Renders
\f1\b0  with 
\f2\b local, verified scripts
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b user\uc0\u8209 owned CSS skins
\f1\b0  inside 
\f2\b sandboxed realms
\f1\b0 .\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Never evals remote code
\f1\b0 ; 
\f2\b never loads remote CSS/JS/fonts
\f1\b0 .\

\f5 	5.	Exposes only 
\f2\b capabilities
\f1\b0  (network, file, clipboard, etc.) via Avro\uc0\u8209 declared tools; all calls go through 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  with AEAD, policy, logging.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) LDT\uc0\u8209 UI architecture (components)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Policy Gateway (PGW)
\f1\b0  \'96 single egress for \'93web content\'94. Enforces:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Domain allowlist/denylist, rate limits, header scrubbing, no mixed content, no redirects to untrusted schemes.\
	\'95	Accepts: HTML, JSON, images; 
\f2\b rejects
\f1\b0 : JS, CSS, fonts (served locally only).\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Content Normalizer (CN)
\f1\b0  \'96 parses fetched HTML/JSON, strips scripts/styles, extracts 
\f2\b semantic signals
\f1\b0  (schema.org, OpenGraph, microdata), and produces a 
\f2\b Content AST
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b UI Manifest Resolver (UIMR)
\f1\b0  \'96 picks a 
\f2\b signed UI Manifest
\f1\b0  to map content \uc0\u8594  components. Manifests are local, versioned, signed, and content\u8209 addressed.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Local Component Library (LCL)
\f1\b0  \'96 reusable, 
\f2\b verified
\f1\b0  UI widgets (tables, forms, galleries, editors), plus 
\f2\b data mappers
\f1\b0 . Shipped unminified, with SBOM+attestations.\
	\'95	
\f2\b CSS Skin Manager (CSM)
\f1\b0  \'96 loads 
\f2\b user\uc0\u8209 chosen CSS tokens/skins
\f1\b0 ; applies them consistently; 
\f2\b forbids
\f1\b0  remote/injected CSS.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Sandboxed Script Realms (SSR)
\f1\b0  \'96 executes local scripts in 
\f2\b SES/QuickJS/Hermes
\f1\b0  realms; 
\f2\b capabilities injected explicitly
\f1\b0 ; 
\f2\b no global ambient authority
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Render Host (RH)
\f1\b0  \'96 presents UI (Tauri/Wry/WebView/CEF). 
\f2\b Navigation
\f1\b0  never leaves RH; all links become 
\f2\b intents
\f1\b0  resolved by agents/tools.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Audit & Provenance
\f1\b0  \'96 every render pipeline emits 
\f2\b AgentEnvelope
\f1\b0  observations; hashes of manifests, components, and skins recorded.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) End\uc0\u8209 to\u8209 end rendering pipeline
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Request
\f1\b0 : user navigates to 
\f4 \cf2 https://example.com/product/123
\f1 \cf2 .\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b PGW fetches
\f1\b0  the document 
\f2\b as data
\f1\b0  (no JS, no CSS), strips scripts/tags; CN builds 
\f2\b Content AST
\f1\b0  (nodes annotated with JSON\uc0\u8209 LD if present).\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b UIMR selects
\f1\b0  a 
\f2\b Signed UI Manifest
\f1\b0  (SUM) for 
\f4 \cf2 example.com
\f1 \cf2  (or a generic vertical manifest: \'93product detail\'94).\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b LCL components
\f1\b0  are bound to AST nodes per SUM rules; 
\f2\b no code from the site
\f1\b0  is executed.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b CSM applies
\f1\b0  the user skin (CSS design tokens + policy); blocks any style from remote content.\

\f5 	6.	
\f2\b SSR
\f1\b0  runs only 
\f2\b local verified scripts
\f1\b0  (component logic, input validation, formatters) with 
\f2\b capability shims
\f1\b0  for network/storage 
\f2\b through agents
\f1\b0 .\

\f5 	7.	
\f2\b RH renders
\f1\b0 ; any \'93link/click\'94 becomes an 
\f2\b Agent intent
\f1\b0 ; any API call goes via TritRPC to the 
\f2\b Network/Connections Agent
\f1\b0  with allowlists and provenance.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Result:
\f1\b0  visually rich, fully interactive UI 
\f2\b without trusting remote JS/CSS
\f1\b0 , under your policies, and with 
\f2\b semantic fidelity
\f1\b0  (JSON\uc0\u8209 LD preserved).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) Signed UI Manifest (SUM)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
A 
\f2\b package that tells LDT\uc0\u8209 UI how to render
\f1\b0  a given site/domain/vertical using local components & styles.\
\

\f2\b Manifest contents
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Target
\f1\b0 : domain patterns, path patterns, or content class (e.g., \'93blog\'94, \'93product\'94, \'93doc\'94).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Selectors/Bindings
\f1\b0 : map Content AST nodes to LCL components (e.g., 
\f4 .price \uc0\u8594  <PriceTag/>
\f1 ).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Data transforms
\f1\b0 : simple expressions or WASM filters (deterministic only).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Actions
\f1\b0 : form handling, pagination, search\'97each mapped to 
\f2\b Avro Actions
\f1\b0  (capabilities).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Skin
\f1\b0 : token set references, layout hints; never imports remote CSS.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Security
\f1\b0 : required capabilities, API endpoints allowlist, privacy flags.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Distribution & trust
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Built via 
\f2\b reproducible toolchain
\f1\b0  (Nix/Bazel), 
\f2\b unminified
\f1\b0 , with 
\f2\b SBOM
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b SLSA/in\uc0\u8209 toto attestations
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	Signed (ed25519/p256); stored content\uc0\u8209 addressed.\
	\'95	Updatable via GitOps; 
\f2\b never hot\uc0\u8209 patched by websites
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) Local Component Library (LCL) & sandboxing
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Tech
\f1\b0 : Web Components rendered in RH, but 
\f2\b Shadow DOM closed is forbidden
\f1\b0 . LDT\uc0\u8209 UI 
\f2\b translates closed shadow to open
\f1\b0  or 
\f2\b disallows
\f1\b0  components requiring it.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Sandbox
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b SES realms
\f1\b0  (or QuickJS) per component family; 
\f2\b capabilities injected
\f1\b0  (e.g., fetch via PGW only; filesystem off; clipboard read\uc0\u8209 only unless user approves).\
	\'95	
\f2\b No eval/dynamic import
\f1\b0 ; no reflection across realms; no shared global objects.\
	\'95	
\f2\b WASM option
\f1\b0 : deterministic compute kernels as WASM; great for verification and cross\uc0\u8209 arch stability.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) CSS governance & anti\uc0\u8209 spoofing
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b User\uc0\u8209 owned skin
\f1\b0 : design tokens (colors, spacing, fonts), baseline reset; 
\f2\b no remote fonts
\f1\b0  by default (FOIT/fingerprinting ban).\
	\'95	
\f2\b CSS sanitizer
\f1\b0 : only a 
\f2\b policy subset
\f1\b0  of properties/selectors; disallow 
\f4 filter
\f1 , tricky blend modes, 
\f4 position:fixed
\f1  overlays unless allowed; block 
\f4 :has()
\f1  if used for deception; strict z\uc0\u8209 index caps.\
	\'95	
\f2\b No Shadow DOM cloaking
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \cf2 attachShadow(\{mode:'closed'\})
\f1 \cf2  \uc0\u8594  
\f2\b blocked
\f1\b0 ; convert to open mode or reject manifest.\
	\'95	Style scoping via tokens not encapsulation; all styling 
\f2\b observable & overrideable
\f1\b0  by user skin.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Accessibility first
\f1\b0 : forced high\uc0\u8209 contrast & scalable fonts per user profile; consistent focus rings; skip links; ARIA audit.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) Network & data policy
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b All network calls
\f1\b0  traverse 
\f2\b Network/Connections Agent
\f1\b0  via 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0 ; 
\f2\b no direct fetch
\f1\b0  from UI realms.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Per\uc0\u8209 site allowlists
\f1\b0  (endpoints, methods); 
\f2\b rate limits
\f1\b0 ; 
\f2\b privacy budgets
\f1\b0  (e.g., daily POST cap).\
	\'95	
\f2\b No third\uc0\u8209 party beacons
\f1\b0 ; strip trackers; synthesize referers; block device fingerprinting vectors.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Cache & dedupe
\f1\b0 : content\uc0\u8209 addressed objects; repeated libraries eliminated; 
\f2\b offline\uc0\u8209 first
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) Avro/JSON\uc0\u8209 LD contracts (key schemas)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b UIManifest (Avro)
\f1\b0  \'96 (excerpt)
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf4 \{\
  \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "UIManifest"\cf4 ,\cf6 "namespace"\cf4 :\cf7 "ldt.v1"\cf4 ,\
  \cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "id"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "targets"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "bindings"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\{\
      \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "Binding"\cf4 ,\cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "selector"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "component"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "transform"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :[\cf7 "null"\cf4 ,\cf7 "string"\cf4 ],\cf6 "default"\cf4 :\cf3 null\cf4 \}\
      ]\}\}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "actions"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "array"\cf4 ,\cf6 "items"\cf4 :\{\
      \cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "UIAction"\cf4 ,\cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "name"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},\
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "capability"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \},  \cf9 // Avro Action capability\cf4 \
        \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "endpoint"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :[\cf7 "null"\cf4 ,\cf7 "string"\cf4 ],\cf6 "default"\cf4 :\cf3 null\cf4 \}\
      ]\}\}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "skin"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "record"\cf4 ,\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "SkinRef"\cf4 ,\cf6 "fields"\cf4 :[\
      \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "tokens"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}  \cf9 // content-addressed id\cf4 \
    ]\}\},\
    \{\cf6 "name"\cf4 :\cf7 "security"\cf4 ,\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\{\cf6 "type"\cf4 :\cf7 "map"\cf4 ,\cf6 "values"\cf4 :\cf7 "string"\cf4 \}\}\
  ]\
\}
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 AgentEnvelope / Observation / Action
\f1\b0  (from earlier) carry runtime events and intents.\

\f2\b JSON\uc0\u8209 LD contexts
\f1\b0  define terms for UI, components, actions, provenance.\
\

\f2\b All messages
\f1\b0  ride in 
\f2\b TritRPC
\f1\b0  envelopes with 
\f4 \cf2 SCHEMA-ID
\f1 \cf2  / 
\f4 \cf2 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 \cf2 , AEAD\uc0\u8209 sealed canonical bytes (
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0 ).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) Where this runs
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Host (OS\uc0\u8209 native)
\f1\b0 : LDT\uc0\u8209 UI runtime, PGW, CN, UIMR, CSM, SSR, RH, and 
\f2\b agents
\f1\b0  (user, knowledge, network, shell).\
	\'95	
\f2\b LMS (K3s)
\f1\b0 : heavier jobs (batch transforms, SHACL promotions, GPU inference), large component builds, secure plugins (Kata).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Edge
\f1\b0 : Docker/Lightning containers for on\uc0\u8209 sensor inference; UI manifests still render locally on host (no remote JS).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Volunteer mesh
\f1\b0 : compute only (WU/verification); 
\f2\b no untrusted UI
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 10) K3s cloud twin as execution bastion & C2
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Mirror the local LMS K3s in a 
\f2\b cloud K3s twin
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b GitOps
\f1\b0 : ArgoCD/Flux syncs manifests, UI Manifests, component libs, policies.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Identity
\f1\b0 : SPIFFE/SPIRE mTLS identities for services across both clusters.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Networking
\f1\b0 : WireGuard/Tailscale mesh between host, LMS, and cloud twin.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Role
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Execution bastion
\f1\b0 : run long\uc0\u8209 lived agents, global coordinators (MeshCoordinator), and 
\f2\b C2 for the trusted mesh
\f1\b0  (publish WUs, gather receipts).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Staging/build
\f1\b0 : build UI Manifests & component libs reproducibly; publish to local caches.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Relay
\f1\b0 : if the host is offline/intermittent, the twin buffers work/results and orchestrates edge cohorts.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Policy mirroring
\f1\b0 : AccessRestrictionPolicy & UserResourceProfile synced; secrets via external\uc0\u8209 secrets; all promotions signed.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 11) Packaging, supply\uc0\u8209 chain, and verification
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Builds
\f1\b0 : Nix/Bazel \uc0\u8594  deterministic bundles (UI Manifests, components, skins).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Artifacts
\f1\b0 : unminified source + minified target (for size) but 
\f2\b runtime loads the unminified source only
\f1\b0 ; minified copies exist only for offline fallback and are never executed unless they match 
\f2\b bit\uc0\u8209 for\u8209 bit
\f1\b0  AST and SRI digests.\
	\'95	
\f2\b SBOM
\f1\b0 : SPDX/CycloneDX attached; versions pinned.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Attestations
\f1\b0 : SLSA + in\uc0\u8209 toto for every bundle; signer keys stored in HSM or cloud KMS with rotation.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Local cache
\f1\b0 : content\uc0\u8209 addressed store; purge policy; audit log of loads and hashes.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 12) Developer/ops UX (examples)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\fs28 \cf9 # Build & sign a UI Manifest for example.com product pages\cf4 \
ldt build-manifest ./manifests/example.com/product.yaml \\\
  --out target/ui-manifest.cab --sbom --attest --sign\
\
\cf9 # Install/activate manifest locally\cf4 \
ldt install target/ui-manifest.cab\
ldt list-manifests --domain example.com\
\
\cf9 # Render a page using local runtime (no remote JS)\cf4 \
ldt open https://example.com/product/123 --skin high-contrast\
\
\cf9 # Sync LMS and cloud twin policies/libraries\cf4 \
lms sync --with cloud-twin\
lms policy apply pii-guard
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 13) How this blocks the specific attacks you named
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Minified obfuscation
\f1\b0 : remote JS never executes; only 
\f2\b local verified scripts
\f1\b0  run. If minified content appears in fetched HTML, CN drops it; SUM never references it.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Common libs I/O (jQuery et al.)
\f1\b0 : LCL provides local equivalents; once cached, 
\f2\b no network
\f1\b0  needed.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Shadow DOM spoofing
\f1\b0 : closed shadow 
\f2\b blocked
\f1\b0 ; all styling observable & overrideable by 
\f2\b user skin
\f1\b0 ; suspicious z\uc0\u8209 index/click\u8209 jacking disallowed by CSS policy.\
	\'95	
\f2\b CSS deception
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b user\uc0\u8209 controlled CSS
\f1\b0  only; remote CSS stripped; dangerous features disabled.\
	\'95	
\f2\b C2 clarity
\f1\b0 : the cloud K3s twin is your 
\f2\b own
\f1\b0  bastion/C2; all control traffic and WU flows are 
\f2\b signed
\f1\b0 , 
\f2\b schema\uc0\u8209 pinned
\f1\b0 , and 
\f2\b provenanced
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 14) Migration plan (phased)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Phase 1 (local hardening)
\f1\b0 : deploy LDT\uc0\u8209 UI on host; PGW/CN/SSR/CSM; render a small set of sites with generic manifests (\'93article\'94, \'93product\'94, \'93repo\'94).\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Phase 2 (supply\uc0\u8209 chain)
\f1\b0 : stand up reproducible build pipeline for manifests/components; enforce SBOM+attestations; cache store.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Phase 3 (LMS + twin)
\f1\b0 : bring up K3s cloud twin; sync policies; move heavy builds there; SPIFFE mesh; WireGuard overlay.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Phase 4 (coverage)
\f1\b0 : expand SUMs; add vertical\uc0\u8209 specific components; WASM kernels for tricky transforms.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Phase 5 (mesh)
\f1\b0 : integrate WU publishing/verification for compute; keep UI local only.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 15) Self\uc0\u8209 critique & recommended refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Strengths
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Eliminates remote execution risk while keeping the rich web UX.\
	\'95	User\uc0\u8209 owned CSS/skins neutralize Shadow DOM/CSS spoofing; transparency by design.\
	\'95	Deterministic, policy\uc0\u8209 first rendering with full provenance (Avro+JSON\u8209 LD+TritRPC).\
	\'95	Clean separation of concerns: host UI vs. LMS/cloud build/compute; 
\f2\b C2 is yours
\f1\b0 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Gaps / next steps
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Manifest authoring
\f1\b0 : build a developer kit (visual selector\uc0\u8594 binding tool, schema validators, preview mode).\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b SES/Realm hardening
\f1\b0 : pick the runtime (SES vs QuickJS) and prove capability isolation; add time/CPU quotas per realm.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b AST equivalence
\f1\b0 : ship an AST\uc0\u8209 hash validator that proves unminified==minified code before allowing minified execution (default remains 
\f2\b ban
\f1\b0 ).\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Accessibility CI
\f1\b0 : enforce a11y rules in SUMs (axe/Pa11y) with fail\uc0\u8209 closed policy.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Threat telemetry
\f1\b0 : add \'93deception signals\'94 (z\uc0\u8209 index spikes, off\u8209 screen links, pointer\u8209 events traps) to Observations; train detectors locally.\

\f5 	6.	
\f2\b Twin consistency
\f1\b0 : formalize twin reconciliation & drift detection (ArgoCD health checks + signed state digests).\

\f5 	7.	
\f2\b Performance
\f1\b0 : prove parity with native browser rendering; cache compiled components; prefetch manifests by domain.\

\f5 	8.	
\f2\b Legal/compat
\f1\b0 : some sites may block non\uc0\u8209 standard UA paths; the PGW should emulate compliant UA while keeping data\u8209 only policy; add per\u8209 site negotiation rules.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
If you want, I\'92ll produce:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	A 
\f2\b reference UI Manifest
\f1\b0  (Avro schema + JSON\uc0\u8209 LD context) and two 
\f2\b site templates
\f1\b0  (article, product).\
	\'95	A small 
\f2\b LCL
\f1\b0  (table, list, form, image gallery) with SES realms and CSS token skins.\
	\'95	A 
\f2\b PGW/CN
\f1\b0  prototype (Go/Rust) that converts a real page to 
\f2\b Content AST
\f1\b0  and renders it through the local runtime\'97zero remote JS/CSS.\
	\'95	GitOps setup to mirror LMS \uc0\u8596  cloud twin (ArgoCD, SPIFFE, WireGuard), including the C2 service for the trusted mesh.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Michael \'97 great direction. Below is a concrete design that fuses 
\f2\b Urbit\'92s \'93computer-for-life\'94
\f1\b0  concept with your 
\f2\b cloud execution bastion / digital twin
\f1\b0 , implemented on 
\f2\b immutable OSTree-based images (Fedora/Flatcar CoreOS)
\f1\b0  so you can scale a K3s C2 node/cluster up and down safely and reproducibly. I anchor key claims about Urbit and OSTree with citations, then give you an end\uc0\u8209 to\u8209 end plan that snaps into our Avro + JSON\u8209 LD + TritRPC + agentic stack.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) Why Urbit + immutable CoreOS is the right pairing
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Urbit as a computer-for-life:
\f1\b0  Urbit is built as 
\f3\i your
\f1\i0  personal server + P2P network + decentralized identity (\'93Urbit ID\'94)\'97meant to be a durable, user\uc0\u8209 owned computing environment, not a disposable app sandbox. Urbit ID is an Ethereum-based PKI (Azimuth) used to sign traffic from your server so identity and messages align cryptographically.  \
	\'95	
\f2\b Clean-slate kernel + frozen VM idea:
\f1\b0  Urbit OS (\'93Arvo\'94) is defined atop a tiny, fixed instruction set (Nock) with Hoon compiling to Nock\'97an attempt at long-lived determinism and comprehensibility.    \
	\'95	
\f2\b Kernel modules (\'93vanes\'94) map cleanly to our agent fabric:
\f1\b0  e.g., 
\f2\b Ames
\f1\b0  (P2P networking), 
\f2\b Clay
\f1\b0  (versioned FS), 
\f2\b Gall
\f1\b0  (apps), 
\f2\b Eyre
\f1\b0  (HTTP), 
\f2\b Behn
\f1\b0  (timers), 
\f2\b Dill
\f1\b0  (terminal). This modularity parallels our agent roles (network, knowledge, shell, scheduler).  \
	\'95	
\f2\b Immutable OS for the twin:
\f1\b0  Fedora CoreOS / Flatcar ship an OSTree/RPM\uc0\u8209 OSTree, image\u8209 based OS with atomic updates; 
\f4 /usr
\f1  is read\uc0\u8209 only, changes are layered and applied via reboot; Flatcar uses A/B USR partitions for safe rollbacks. This gives you a \'93golden state\'94 twin you can reproduce, autoscale, and verify.    \
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Synthesis:
\f1\b0  Urbit\'92s 
\f3\i \cf2 identity+determinism
\f1\i0 \cf2  philosophy matches our need for a 
\f3\i \cf2 lifelong
\f1\i0 \cf2 , user\uc0\u8209 owned, cryptographically anchored bastion. OSTree\u8209 based CoreOS gives us the 
\f3\i \cf2 immutable substrate
\f1\i0 \cf2  to run it (and your K3s C2), with zero\uc0\u8209 drift and safe upgrades.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) Concept: Personal C2 Twin (Urbit\uc0\u8209 inspired) on OSTree CoreOS
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Think of this as 
\f2\b your cloud computer for life
\f1\b0 \'97a long\uc0\u8209 lived, identity\u8209 anchored, immutable K3s cluster that mirrors your local K3s (LMS) and serves as:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Execution bastion & C2
\f1\b0  for you and your trusted mesh (volunteer/edge/fog).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Identity & provenance root
\f1\b0  (keys, attestation, signatures).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Policy oracle
\f1\b0  (what may run where, under which capabilities).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Semantic contract registry
\f1\b0  (Avro schema + JSON\uc0\u8209 LD 
\f4 @context
\f1 ).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Build & publish point
\f1\b0  for your local digital\uc0\u8209 twin UI manifests and component packs.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 2.1 Urbit\uc0\u8209 inspired mappings (without forcing Urbit runtime)
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f8\b\fs26 \cf2 Urbit concept
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f8\b\fs26 \cf2 Your C2 twin analogue
\f6\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Urbit ID (Azimuth)
\f1\b0  \'96 PKI/NFT identity
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Primary DID
\f1\b0  (DID:key / DID:web) or 
\f3\i \cf2 optionally
\f1\i0 \cf2  Urbit ID bridged to a DID; used to sign TritRPC frames and policy bundles.  
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Ames
\f1\b0  \'96 encrypted P2P networking
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 TritRPC overlay
\f1\b0  (QUIC/libp2p/NATS) for agent\uc0\u8209 to\u8209 agent flows; wire AEAD + content addressing.  
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Clay
\f1\b0  \'96 revisioned FS
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 OSTree
\f1\b0  for OS state; content\uc0\u8209 addressed object store (CAS/S3/IPFS) for data/artifacts; GitOps for manifests.  
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Gall
\f1\b0  \'96 app manager
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 K3s + GitOps (Argo/Flux)
\f1\b0  to declare/roll workloads; CRDs for capabilities/policies.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Eyre
\f1\b0  \'96 HTTP server
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Policy gateway
\f1\b0  & 
\f2\b TritRPC ingress
\f1\b0  for LDT\uc0\u8209 UI and agents; no remote JS/CSS executed.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Behn
\f1\b0  \'96 timer
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Schedulers
\f1\b0  (K8s + Poseidon/Firmament) for timed/queued tasks across tiers.  
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Dill
\f1\b0  \'96 terminal
\f6\fs24 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Terminal/Shell agent
\f1\b0  with audited capabilities.
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx860\tx1420\tx1980\tx2540\tx3100\tx3660\tx4220\tx4780\tx5340\tx5900\tx6460\tx7020\li300\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 If you 
\f2\b do
\f1\b0  want real Urbit OS nodes (\'93ships\'94) in your fabric, you can host them 
\f3\i \cf2 inside
\f1\i0 \cf2  the twin (Kata/Firecracker isolation), bind their Urbit IDs, and interconnect via policy (Ames \uc0\u8644  TritRPC gateway).  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Base images and composability (CoreOS/Flatcar)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Image families (immutable):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b c2-base
\f1\b0 : Fedora CoreOS (or Flatcar) + Ignition; SPIFFE/SPIRE, WireGuard/Tailscale, bootstrapped 
\f2\b K3s
\f1\b0 .  \
	\'95	
\f2\b c2-secure
\f1\b0 : c2-base + Kata/Firecracker, OPA/Gatekeeper, encrypted PV classes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b c2-ml
\f1\b0 : c2-base + NVIDIA/container\uc0\u8209 toolkit layers (via rpm\u8209 ostree layering where unavoidable), KEDA autoscaler hooks.   \
	\'95	
\f2\b c2-build
\f1\b0 : c2-base + Buildkit/Nix/Bazel toolchains for 
\f2\b reproducible
\f1\b0  UI manifests and agents (builds happen here, not on host).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Why OSTree here?
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Atomic, signed upgrades
\f1\b0 ; revert via A/B or rollback to previous OSTree deployment; 
\f4 /usr
\f1  immutable; 
\f4 /var
\f1  holds mutable state and K3s data.   \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Provisioning:
\f1\b0  Butane\uc0\u8594 Ignition; nodes auto\u8209 join via SPIRE/SVID, layer node\u8209 class taints, pull GitOps desired state.  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) K3s \'d7 K3s: local mirror + cloud twin
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Local K3s (LMS)
\f1\b0 : on your workstation\'92s VM (Kata/gVisor available) \'97 runs 
\f3\i your
\f1\i0  agent workloads that need isolation/resources; no Airflow here.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Cloud K3s twin
\f1\b0 : a minimal but durable cluster based on 
\f2\b c2\uc0\u8209 base
\f1\b0  images; GitOps\uc0\u8209 controlled; 
\f2\b execution bastion & C2
\f1\b0  for your mesh and as a rendezvous when the laptop is offline.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Drift\uc0\u8209 free:
\f1\b0  Both clusters are pinned to 
\f2\b content-addressed
\f1\b0  K8s manifests and OSTree commits; Argo/Flux enforces desired state \'97 reproducible at any scale.\
\

\f2\b Network identity:
\f1\b0  SPIFFE/SPIRE for mTLS between all agents/components; twin issues SVIDs and rotates keys.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) LDT\uc0\u8209 UI & \'93no remote JS/CSS\'94 hardening (stays intact)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Local Digital\uc0\u8209 Twin UI
\f1\b0  (LDT\uc0\u8209 UI) renders all pages with 
\f2\b local verified scripts/components
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b user CSS skins
\f1\b0 ; policy gateway fetches 
\f3\i data only
\f1\i0 ; Shadow\uc0\u8209 DOM cloaking disallowed; TritRPC to agents for actions.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Twin role
\f1\b0 : build, sign, and publish 
\f2\b UI Manifests
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b component libraries
\f1\b0  in a reproducible pipeline; distribute to the laptop cache.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\i \cf2 (This preserves your Shadow\uc0\u8209 DOM and minified\u8209 bundle defenses; we\'92re only relocating build/distribution to the twin.)
\f1\i0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) Federated mesh + Airflow (governed) interop
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Airflow (global/regional only)
\f1\b0  continues to define governed 
\f2\b source\uc0\u8594 target
\f1\b0  DAGs and can 
\f2\b publish Work Units (WUs)
\f1\b0  to the mesh.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Twin (C2)
\f1\b0  hosts the 
\f2\b Mesh Coordinator
\f1\b0 : WU registry, verifier reducers (quorum/spot/TEE/ZK), settlement/credits.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Edge/smart devices
\f1\b0  run Docker/Lightning/WASM workers; results come back as Avro/TritRPC and are reduced by governed DAGs.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) Scaling the twin: node sets & policies
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Scale set
\f1\b0  (auto groups): launch nodes from 
\f2\b the same OSTree commit
\f1\b0  and GitOps revision; node 
\f3\i roles
\f1\i0  via taints/tolerations: 
\f4 c2-work
\f1 , 
\f4 c2-secure
\f1 , 
\f4 c2-ml
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Autoscale policy
\f1\b0 : KEDA/HPA based on TritRPC queue depth, SLOs, GPU utilization; cost/energy caps.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Upgrades
\f1\b0 : image rollout = change OSTree ref + GitOps wave; nodes reboot into new deployment; rollback possible (A/B or previous deployment).  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) Identity & \'93breach/rotation\'94 semantics
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Urbit has the notion of 
\f2\b breach
\f1\b0  (reset/rotate keys) for security or topology changes. Mirror this:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Soft rotate
\f1\b0 : roll SPIRE/SVIDs & service keys; preserve data.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Hard rotate (\'93breach\'94)
\f1\b0 : rekey identity (DID/Urbit ID); re\uc0\u8209 provision twin from scratch at a 
\f2\b new OSTree commit
\f1\b0 ; only signed, content\uc0\u8209 addressed data promoted forward.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Audit ledger
\f1\b0 : immutable event log of promotions and key state.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\i \cf2 (If you adopt real Urbit IDs, you can map DID\uc0\u8644 Urbit ID for human\u8209 meaningful naming while keeping TritRPC/Avro primary.)
\f1\i0   \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) Security model (zero\uc0\u8209 trust by construction)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Boot chain
\f1\b0 : Secure Boot + ostree commit signatures + bootupd integrity.  \
	\'95	
\f2\b Network
\f1\b0 : SPIFFE mTLS; TritRPC AEAD; no raw HTTP\uc0\u8209 plugin sprawl.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Isolation
\f1\b0 : gVisor for medium, Kata/Firecracker for high trust.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Secrets
\f1\b0 : External Secrets \uc0\u8594  Vault/KMS; short\u8209 lived creds; field\u8209 level AEAD where required.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Supply chain
\f1\b0 : SBOM + SLSA/in\uc0\u8209 toto attestations on UI Manifests, components, agents.\
	\'95	
\f2\b No remote code in UI
\f1\b0 : all scripts/styles local and verified (policy\uc0\u8209 enforced).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 10) Minimal runbooks
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Provision twin
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	Pick 
\f2\b Fedora CoreOS
\f1\b0  (or Flatcar) image; author 
\f2\b Butane
\f1\b0  \uc0\u8594  Ignition; embed WireGuard keys, SPIRE bootstrap, K3s install; set node taints.  \

\f5 	2.	Create 
\f2\b c2\uc0\u8209 base
\f1\b0  OSTree image; store commit digest; publish to your registry.  \

\f5 	3.	GitOps repo: K3s manifests (Argo/Flux, SPIRE, NATS/QUIC TritRPC ingress, OPA/Gatekeeper, KEDA).\
	4.	Bring 
\f2\b N nodes
\f1\b0  via the scale set using the same OSTree commit + GitOps revision.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Daily ops
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Roll updates by bumping the 
\f2\b OSTree ref
\f1\b0  + GitOps SHA; watch health gates; rollback if needed (A/B).  \
	\'95	Autoscale on queue depth/SLO; park GPU nodes when idle.\
	\'95	Rebuild UI Manifests/components with 
\f2\b c2\uc0\u8209 build
\f1\b0 ; publish to laptop caches.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Disaster / \'93breach\'94
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Reissue identity (DID/Urbit ID), rebuild c2\uc0\u8209 base, rehydrate data from content\u8209 addressed store and signed promotions; cut DNS to the old SVIDs.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 11) Concrete component list (what runs where)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b On the twin (cloud K3s):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	SPIRE / cert\uc0\u8209 rotator; WireGuard; Argo/Flux; NATS/QUIC TritRPC gateway; Mesh Coordinator (WU registry/verifiers); Schema Registry + JSON\u8209 LD context store; Buildkit/Nix/Bazel for LDT\u8209 UI artifacts; Observability (OTel, Loki, Tempo); OPA/Gatekeeper; KEDA; CSI (encrypted PVs).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 On the laptop LMS (local K3s):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Same TritRPC gateway; SHACL promotion workers; GPU inference (if present); Kata pool for PII; local caches.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 On the host (no Ray):
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Agent kernel (
\f4 agentd
\f1 ), LDT\uc0\u8209 UI runtime (PGW/CN/UIMR/SSR/RH), User/System graphs, SMLL LLM service; OS\u8209 native task runner.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 12) How this aligns explicitly with Urbit
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b User\uc0\u8209 owned identity
\f1\b0  (Urbit ID or DID) signs everything\'97like Urbit\'92s \'93your server signs every message\'94 model.  \
	\'95	
\f2\b Deterministic layering
\f1\b0 : OSTree\'92s immutable deployments echo Clay\'92s revisioned worldview.  \
	\'95	
\f2\b Network as overlay of peers
\f1\b0 : TritRPC overlay mirrors Ames\'92 goal; we keep it Avro + JSON\uc0\u8209 LD native and quantum\u8209 ready.  \
	\'95	
\f2\b Small, comprehensible core
\f1\b0 : the twin\'92s base image is minimal; all higher behavior is declarative and signed\'97Urbit\'92s \'93understandable stack\'94 ethos.  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 13) Next 14\uc0\u8209 day build plan
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Week 1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Author 
\f2\b c2\uc0\u8209 base
\f1\b0  Ignition (SPIRE, WireGuard, K3s); boot a 3\uc0\u8209 node twin (Flatcar or Fedora CoreOS).   \
	\'95	Stand up GitOps + TritRPC gateway + Schema Registry/JSON\uc0\u8209 LD store.\
	\'95	Bring 
\f2\b agentd
\f1\b0  on host; connect via SPIFFE mTLS.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Week 2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Package 
\f2\b LDT\uc0\u8209 UI
\f1\b0  sample manifests (article/product) in reproducible builds on the twin; deliver to host cache.\
	\'95	Enable 
\f2\b Mesh Coordinator
\f1\b0 ; run a small volunteer batch with WASM workers.\
	\'95	Add autoscaling & A/B image rollout tests (upgrade + rollback).  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 14) Self\uc0\u8209 critique & refinements
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b Strengths
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Marries Urbit\'92s \'93computer\uc0\u8209 for\u8209 life\'94 ideals (identity, longevity, simplicity) with pragmatic, modern ops (OSTree, K3s, GitOps).\
	\'95	Immutable OS + content\uc0\u8209 addressed manifests \u8594  safe, repeatable scaling of your C2.\
	\'95	Preserves your 
\f2\b no\uc0\u8209 remote\u8209 JS/CSS
\f1\b0  posture and agentic workflow, while giving a robust cloud bastion.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 What to tighten next
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Identity bridge
\f1\b0 : a concrete DID\uc0\u8644 Urbit ID adapter (optional path if you adopt Urbit IDs).  \

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Golden images
\f1\b0 : publish reference 
\f2\b c2\uc0\u8209 base / c2\u8209 secure / c2\u8209 ml
\f1\b0  OSTree commits with SBOM and in\uc0\u8209 toto attestations.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Twin health proofs
\f1\b0 : periodic signed state digests (GitOps SHA + OSTree commit + SPIRE bundle) to detect drift.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Formal breach runbook
\f1\b0 : step\uc0\u8209 by\u8209 step key rotation, storage scrubbing, and selective forward promotion.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Urbit\uc0\u8209 runtime option
\f1\b0 : if desired, host a true Urbit \'93ship\'94 inside Kata/Firecracker with an Ames\uc0\u8596 TritRPC gateway for specific apps.  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
If you want, I\'92ll produce:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Butane\uc0\u8594 Ignition
\f1\b0  examples for 
\f2\b c2\uc0\u8209 base
\f1\b0  (Fedora CoreOS) with SPIRE/K3s bootstrap,\
	\'95	A minimal 
\f2\b GitOps repo
\f1\b0  (Argo/Flux) pinning manifests and node roles,\
	\'95	The 
\f2\b TritRPC ingress
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b Schema/Context
\f1\b0  services, and\
	\'95	A tiny 
\f2\b LDT\uc0\u8209 UI build pipeline
\f1\b0  (Nix/Bazel) that signs component/manifest bundles for the host to consume\'97so your \'93cloud computer for life\'94 is live, immutable, and policy\uc0\u8209 driven from day one.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Got it, Michael. I\'92ll align the 
\f2\b Inception Framework
\f1\b0  to the category\uc0\u8209 theoretic notion of a 
\f2\b strict initial object
\f1\b0  and translate the math into concrete architectural invariants and enforcement mechanisms across your stack (agents, Avro/JSON\uc0\u8209 LD, TritRPC, LDT\u8209 UI, LMS K3s + cloud twin, Airflow/mesh). I\'92ll keep this precise and operational.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 0) TL;DR \'97 What \'93strict initial\'94 buys you in Inception
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Let 
\f2\b \uc0\u55349 \u56478 
\f1\b0  be the category of Inception artifacts and executions (objects = typed states/capsules/graphs/contexts; morphisms = verified, capability\uc0\u8209 scoped transformations carried in TritRPC). We enforce:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b (I1) Unique genesis
\f1\b0 : there is exactly one canonical 
\f2\b genesis morphism
\f1\b0  from the empty artifact 
\f2\b \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0  to any object 
\f3\i X
\f1\i0 . No ad\uc0\u8209 hoc \'93bootstrap\'94 paths.\
	\'95	
\f2\b (I2) No sinks
\f1\b0 : any morphism 
\f2\b f: X \uc0\u8594  \u8709 
\f1\b0  is an 
\f2\b isomorphism
\f1\b0  \uc0\u8658  it can only exist if 
\f2\b X \uc0\u8773  \u8709 
\f1\b0 . You cannot \'93send to /dev/null\'94; you must 
\f2\b prove emptiness
\f1\b0  (secure erase with certificate) to reach \uc0\u8709 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b (I3) Emptiness is absorbing
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b X \'d7 \uc0\u8709  \u8773  \u8709 
\f1\b0 . Combining any object with 
\f2\b empty data/capabilities
\f1\b0  produces 
\f2\b empty
\f1\b0 . No hidden effects from nothing.\
\
These three become 
\f2\b global invariants
\f1\b0  that eliminate covert discard, ensure reproducible bootstrap, and force explicit proofs for erasure/redaction.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) The Inception Category \uc0\u55349 \u56478 
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 1.1 Objects (typed)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b DataCapsule
\f1\b0  (Avro payload + JSON\uc0\u8209 LD context + provenance)\
	\'95	
\f2\b AgentState
\f1\b0  (OpenCog AtomSpace slice + vector cache)\
	\'95	
\f2\b CapabilityProfile
\f1\b0  (capability lattice element)\
	\'95	
\f2\b ExecutionContext
\f1\b0  (policy + residency + runtime constraints)\
	\'95	
\f2\b WorkUnit/Receipt
\f1\b0  (mesh tasks/results)\
	\'95	
\f2\b UIManifest/Component
\f1\b0  (LDT\uc0\u8209 UI assets)\
	\'95	
\f2\b Graph
\f1\b0  (UserGraph/SystemGraph deltas)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 1.2 Morphisms
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Typed transforms
\f1\b0 : Avro\uc0\u8209 declared, TritRPC\u8209 carried functions respecting capability and policy (e.g., Normalize, Promote, Infer).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Product
\f1\b0  
\f2\b \'d7
\f1\b0 : pairwise execution/context or data/capability pairing.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Coproduct
\f1\b0  
\f2\b +
\f1\b0 : disjoint union (e.g., event fan\uc0\u8209 in).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Terminal
\f1\b0  
\f2\b 1
\f1\b0 : unit/ack (non\uc0\u8209 informative success).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Initial
\f1\b0  
\f2\b \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\b strict
\f1\b0  initial artifact (see invariants below).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) Formal alignment to \'93strict initial object\'94
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 A. Unique morphism out of \uc0\u8709  (genesis)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Enforcement
\f1\b0 : A single 
\f2\b Genesis functor
\f1\b0  \uc0\u55349 \u56482  supplies the only constructors 
\f2\b \uc0\u951 \u8339 : \u8709  \u8594  X
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Operationalization
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Genesis bundles
\f1\b0  (schemas, contexts, policies, models) are 
\f2\b content\uc0\u8209 addressed, signed
\f1\b0 , and 
\f2\b versioned
\f1\b0  in the cloud twin; on host they are 
\f2\b verified
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b materialized
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	No other code path can mint a first instance; bootstrap is reproducible (same digest \uc0\u8658  same object).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 B. Every f: X \uc0\u8594  \u8709  is iso (no silent discard)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Meaning
\f1\b0 : You cannot \'93throw away\'94 information. To reach \uc0\u8709  you must 
\f2\b transform X down to emptiness
\f1\b0  and prove it.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Operationalization
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Erase
\f1\b0  is a 
\f2\b two\uc0\u8209 phase isomorphism
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 \cf2 X --(shred)--> X\uc0\u8320  --(certify)--> \u8709 
\f1 \cf2 , where 
\f4 \cf2 shred
\f1 \cf2  deterministically produces a zero\uc0\u8209 information variant 
\f4 \cf2 X\uc0\u8320 
\f1 \cf2 , and 
\f4 \cf2 certify
\f1 \cf2  checks 
\f4 \cf2 H(X\uc0\u8320 )=H(\u8709 )
\f1 \cf2  (a fixed digest under canonicalization).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Policy
\f1\b0  forbids routing to a \'93bit bucket\'94 endpoint; CI lints and runtime admission webhooks reject any flow typed 
\f2\b X \uc0\u8594  \u8709 
\f1\b0  that is not the certified isomorphism.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 C. X \'d7 \uc0\u8709  \u8773  \u8709  (emptiness absorbs)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Meaning
\f1\b0 : Combining any computation with 
\f2\b empty data or zero capability
\f1\b0  yields 
\f2\b no effect
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Operationalization
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Strict emptiness propagation
\f1\b0  in transforms: Beam/Ray operators, agent tools, and UI pipelines 
\f2\b short\uc0\u8209 circuit
\f1\b0  when any input is \uc0\u8709 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Capability lattice
\f1\b0  has a 
\f2\b strict bottom \uc0\u8869 
\f1\b0  with 
\f4 \cf2 \uc0\u8869  \u8855  X = \u8869 
\f1 \cf2  (monoidal product of capabilities). If a tool runs under \uc0\u8869 , the result is \u8709  by typing, not by convention.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 D. Slice over \uc0\u8709  is terminal (van Kampen view)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	The slice 
\f2\b \uc0\u55349 \u56478 /\u8709  \u8771  1
\f1\b0 : there is only one object over \uc0\u8709  (the trivial one). Practically, 
\f2\b no interesting structure lives \'93over emptiness\'94
\f1\b0 ; any diagram factoring through \uc0\u8709  is uniquely trivial.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Operationalization
\f1\b0 : You cannot publish/promote a dataset/graph \'93over an empty base\'94. Merges over \uc0\u8709  are disallowed (or canonical no\u8209 ops). This prevents \'93phantom baselines\'94.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Where these invariants live (layer by layer)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.1 Schemas & semantics (Avro + JSON\uc0\u8209 LD + TritRPC)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Canonical \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0 : define a 
\f2\b well\uc0\u8209 typed empty datum
\f1\b0  per schema (not just JSON null). Each Avro schema has a 
\f2\b distinguished empty value
\f1\b0  with a 
\f2\b fixed digest
\f1\b0  under 
\f2\b canonical TritPack243
\f1\b0  bytes.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Envelope proofs
\f1\b0 : a 
\f2\b Proof\uc0\u8209 of\u8209 Emptiness
\f1\b0  (PoE) record is an AEAD\uc0\u8209 sealed certificate stating that the canonical bytes match 
\f2\b H(\uc0\u8709 )
\f1\b0  for that 
\f4 SCHEMA-ID
\f1  / 
\f4 CONTEXT-ID
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Transport law
\f1\b0 : In TritRPC, a 
\f2\b PAYLOAD=\uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0  implies 
\f2\b MODE\uc0\u8209 independent
\f1\b0  canonical bytes; 
\f2\b AEAD
\f1\b0  must cover the 
\f4 SCHEMA-ID
\f1  and 
\f4 CONTEXT-ID
\f1  to forbid schema games.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.2 LDT\uc0\u8209 UI (no remote JS/CSS)
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Emptiness laws
\f1\b0  translate to UI:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	If the 
\f2\b Content AST
\f1\b0  for a view is \uc0\u8709 , the render is \u8709  (no shell side effects).\
	\'95	If the 
\f2\b capability profile
\f1\b0  injected to a component is \uc0\u8869 , that component can only render a 
\f2\b pure view
\f1\b0  (no IO); attempts to call network tools yield \uc0\u8709  results.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Shadow DOM
\f1\b0  and remote CSS remain banned; any attempt to \'93smuggle\'94 effects equals 
\f4 X \'d7 \uc0\u8869 
\f1 , which becomes \uc0\u8709  by type.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.3 Agent kernel (OS\uc0\u8209 native) & LMS/cloud
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Host
\f1\b0 : Strict emptiness propagation in agent tools; the 
\f2\b planner
\f1\b0  refuses to schedule transforms whose inputs are \uc0\u8709  unless they are the 
\f2\b genesis
\f1\b0  or 
\f2\b erase\uc0\u8209 iso
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b LMS (K3s)
\f1\b0 : Admission controller rejects deployments that (a) reference sinks 
\f2\b X \uc0\u8594  \u8709 
\f1\b0  without PoE, or (b) compose with \uc0\u8869  capability and claim non\u8209 empty outputs.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Cloud twin
\f1\b0 : GitOps gates prohibit colimits/pushouts over \uc0\u8709 ; merges must be 
\f2\b van Kampen
\f1\b0  (stable under pullback) to be admitted.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 3.4 Airflow (governed) & Mesh
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Airflow
\f1\b0 : DAG lints enforce emptiness laws (source partitions empty \uc0\u8658  downstream ops short\u8209 circuit to \u8709 ; only reduce stages may \'93re\u8209 materialize\'94 from non\u8209 empty inputs).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Mesh
\f1\b0 : WorkUnits encode 
\f2\b input digests
\f1\b0 ; a WU with \uc0\u8709  input must produce \u8709  output (determinism checks catch violators). Verifiers reject any 
\f2\b X\uc0\u8594 \u8709 
\f1\b0  lacking the erase\uc0\u8209 iso certificate.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 4) Core algebra we\'92ll ship as libraries
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 4.1 The StrictEmpty Kit
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Typeclass/traits
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 Initial[Schema]
\f1  gives 
\f4 empty : Value
\f1 , 
\f4 isEmpty : Value\uc0\u8594 Bool
\f1 , 
\f4 digestEmpty : Hash
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Lemmas as property tests
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Genesis uniqueness
\f1\b0 : only 
\f4 \cf2 \uc0\u951 \u8339 
\f1 \cf2  constructs non\uc0\u8209 empty from \u8709 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Absorption
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 \cf2 prod(x, empty) == empty
\f1 \cf2 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Iso\uc0\u8209 erase
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 \cf2 erase(x)
\f1 \cf2  returns 
\f4 \cf2 (x0, cert)
\f1 \cf2  with 
\f4 \cf2 cert.check() \uc0\u8658  x0 \u8773  \u8709 
\f1 \cf2 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 4.2 Capability lattice with \uc0\u8869 
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f4 \uc0\u8869  \u8804  c \u8804  \u8868 
\f1 ; 
\f4 c \uc0\u8855  \u8869  = \u8869 
\f1 ; monotone functor 
\f4 Exec_c : \uc0\u55349 \u56478  \u8594  \u55349 \u56478 
\f1  preserves \uc0\u8709  strictly (
\f4 Exec_c(\uc0\u8709 )=\u8709 
\f1 ).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Static checker
\f1\b0 : compose tools only if 
\f4 c_out \uc0\u8804  c_in
\f1 ; any mismatch collapses to \uc0\u8709 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 4.3 TritRPC helpers
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b PoE record
\f1\b0  (Avro): 
\f4 \{ schema_id, context_id, payload_digest, method="erase-iso", timestamp, signer \}
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Canon pack
\f1\b0 : 
\f4 to_canonical_bytes(payload)
\f1  always uses 
\f2\b TritPack243
\f1\b0  with a fixed endianness; the empty digest is schema\uc0\u8209 bound.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 5) Example: end\uc0\u8209 to\u8209 end with emptiness invariants
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Genesis
\f1\b0 : The 
\f2\b Bereshit
\f1\b0  agent (your first agent) instantiates 
\f4 \cf2 UserGraph\uc0\u8320 
\f1 \cf2  via 
\f2\b \uc0\u951 
\f1\b0  (unique genesis).\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Ingest
\f1\b0 : A source topic is empty for the day. Airflow publishes 
\f2\b WU
\f1\b0  with 
\f2\b \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0  input (content\uc0\u8209 addressed). Workers must return 
\f2\b \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0  result; reducer verifies digests.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b UI
\f1\b0 : LDT\uc0\u8209 UI receives a page whose normalized content AST is \u8709  (e.g., 404 with no body). Renderer shows a canonical minimal page; no action tools are wired (capability \u8869 ).\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Erase
\f1\b0 : User requests data deletion. Terminal agent executes 
\f2\b erase\uc0\u8209 iso
\f1\b0 : transforms the capsule, produces 
\f4 \cf2 X\uc0\u8320 
\f1 \cf2  and 
\f2\b PoE
\f1\b0 ; only then may 
\f4 \cf2 X\uc0\u8320  \u8594  \u8709 
\f1 \cf2  be admitted (admission webhook checks PoE).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 6) Category\uc0\u8209 aware merge discipline (van Kampen)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Treat curated graphs and datasets as objects in an 
\f2\b extensive/adhesive
\f1\b0  setting. Pushouts used for merges 
\f2\b must be van Kampen
\f1\b0  (pullback\uc0\u8209 stable).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Rule
\f1\b0 : No pushout along an inclusion over 
\f2\b \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0 ; slice 
\f2\b \uc0\u55349 \u56478 /\u8709 
\f1\b0  is terminal \uc0\u8658  there is nothing to glue; admission controller rejects with a proof.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Benefit
\f1\b0 : Your merges are invertible/transparent; no \'93ghost merges\'94 whose base is undefined.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 7) Design contracts (non\uc0\u8209 negotiable)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b No untyped nulls
\f1\b0 : Avro unions must distinguish 
\f2\b Option
\f1\b0  from 
\f2\b \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0  (use explicit union tags + 
\f4 \cf2 Initial[Schema]
\f1 \cf2 ).\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b No silent sinks
\f1\b0 : All \'93delete\'94, \'93redact\'94, \'93quarantine\'94 routes are 
\f2\b erase\uc0\u8209 iso
\f1\b0 ; produce PoE, or fail closed.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b No effect from \uc0\u8869 
\f1\b0 : any tool/agent running without capability produces \uc0\u8709  (and is observable as such).\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Genesis registry
\f1\b0 : only the 
\f2\b Genesis functor
\f1\b0  can mint first instances; track its digest and signer in the twin.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b Unit \uc0\u8800  empty
\f1\b0 : terminal 
\f4 \cf2 1
\f1 \cf2  (ack) is not \uc0\u8709 . Don\'92t conflate \'93no payload\'94 with \'93empty object\'94.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 8) Concrete hooks to implement now
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Avro plugin
\f1\b0 : generate 
\f4 Initial
\f1  instances and empty digests per schema; expose 
\f4 empty()
\f1 , 
\f4 isEmpty()
\f1 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Airflow linter
\f1\b0 : statically analyze DAGs to enforce emptiness propagation and ban unsanctioned 
\f2\b X\uc0\u8594 \u8709 
\f1\b0  edges.\
	\'95	
\f2\b K8s admission webhook
\f1\b0 : deny Deployments/Jobs whose declared IO contracts violate (I1\'96I3); require PoE for deletion flows.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Agent tool bus
\f1\b0 : drop messages where 
\f4 (payload==\uc0\u8709 ) \u8744  (cap==\u8869 )
\f1  unless the method is genesis or erase\uc0\u8209 iso.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Mesh verifier
\f1\b0 : for WUs with \uc0\u8709  inputs, require \u8709  outputs; otherwise slash/retry.\
	\'95	
\f2\b LDT\uc0\u8209 UI runtime
\f1\b0 : enforce AST\uc0\u8209 \u8709  \u8594  render\u8209 \u8709 ; capability \u8869  \u8594  action set \u8709 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Twin GitOps policy
\f1\b0 : reject pushouts over \uc0\u8709 ; require van Kampen proofs (or declarative class) for merges.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 9) \'93Strict initial\'94 in the capability category (Cap)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Often, capability control is more intuitive:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Objects: capability profiles; initial 
\f2\b \uc0\u8869 
\f1\b0 ; terminal 
\f2\b \uc0\u8868 
\f1\b0 ; monoidal product 
\f2\b \uc0\u8855 
\f1\b0 .\
	\'95	Laws we enforce:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b \uc0\u8869  is strict initial
\f1\b0 : unique morphism 
\f4 \cf2 \uc0\u8869 \u8594 c
\f1 \cf2 ; any 
\f4 \cf2 c\uc0\u8594 \u8869 
\f1 \cf2  implies 
\f4 \cf2 c\uc0\u8773 \u8869 
\f1 \cf2 .\
	\'95	
\f2\b Data functorality
\f1\b0 : a run under capability 
\f4 \cf2 c
\f1 \cf2  is a functor 
\f4 \cf2 Exec_c
\f1 \cf2 ; 
\f4 \cf2 Exec_\uc0\u8869 
\f1 \cf2  is constantly 
\f2\b \uc0\u8709 
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Implementation: capability tokens + policy compiler guarantee the lattice laws in placement and execution.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 10) How this tightens your threat model
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b No covert discard
\f1\b0  (exfil via \'93drop on the floor\'94): blocked; every path to \uc0\u8709  is an iso with a certificate.\
	\'95	
\f2\b No shadow effects
\f1\b0  from empty inputs or zero capability: provably none (X\'d7\uc0\u8709 =\u8709 ; c\u8855 \u8869 =\u8869 ).\
	\'95	
\f2\b Reproducible bootstrap
\f1\b0 : only one genesis path; same inputs \uc0\u8594  same objects.\
	\'95	
\f2\b Safer merges
\f1\b0 : van Kampen only; stable under pullback; no gluing over void.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 11) Self\uc0\u8209 critique (and specific refinements)
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\

\f2\b What\'92s strong
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	The strict\uc0\u8209 initial laws translate cleanly into 
\f2\b operational rules
\f1\b0  with verifiable artifacts (PoE, canonical digests).\
	\'95	Emptiness propagation prevents an entire class of UI and data\uc0\u8209 plane exploits.\
	\'95	Capability\uc0\u8209 \u8869  as strict initial gives a crisp enforcement lever across agents and schedulers.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 What to refine next
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx260\tx420\li420\fi-420\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf2 	1.	
\f2\b Formal ABNF for PoE
\f1\b0  and canon bytes (TritPack243 + AEAD) so digests are interoperable across languages.\

\f5 	2.	
\f2\b Mechanical proofs
\f1\b0 : property\uc0\u8209 based tests + Coq/Lean snippets for (I1\'96I3) in small models (Sets/Posets) and then lift to our encodings.\

\f5 	3.	
\f2\b Beam/Ray operator library
\f1\b0 : ready\uc0\u8209 made emptiness\u8209 aware combinators (map, join, group, reduce) that enforce absorption.\

\f5 	4.	
\f2\b Kubernetes policies
\f1\b0 : OPA/Gatekeeper templates for \'93no X\uc0\u8594 \u8709  without PoE\'94, \'93no pushout over \u8709 \'94, and \'93capability\u8209 \u8869  \u8658  output \u8709 \'94.\

\f5 	5.	
\f2\b UI manifest checker
\f1\b0 : ensure manifests cannot reintroduce effects when AST or capability is empty/bottom.\

\f5 	6.	
\f2\b Audit UX
\f1\b0 : \'93Show me the emptiness proof\'94 button in ops UI; link to PoE, digests, and signer lineage.\

\f5 	7.	
\f2\b Category adapters
\f1\b0 : document how our \uc0\u55349 \u56478  behaves as extensive/distributive/cartesian closed in practice (which subcategories are posetal/topos\u8209 like), so we know exactly where strictness is guaranteed \'93for free\'94 and where we must enforce it.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \
If you\'92d like, I\'92ll produce:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	A 
\f2\b reference Initial library
\f1\b0  for Avro schemas (Rust/Python) with canonical emptiness digests and PoE generation/verification.\
	\'95	
\f2\b OPA/Gatekeeper policies
\f1\b0  implementing the three invariants cluster\uc0\u8209 wide.\
	\'95	A 
\f2\b DAG linter
\f1\b0  and 
\f2\b agent tool\uc0\u8209 bus guard
\f1\b0  enforcing (I1\'96I3).\
	\'95	A 
\f2\b short formal note
\f1\b0  proving the absorption and iso\uc0\u8209 erase properties in a minimal model (Sets) and mapping each proof obligation to a concrete check in Inception.}